SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-serbia-wsdc-2024-grand-final-scotland-vs-bulgaria-this-house-regrets-the-glorification-of-champions.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Serbia WSDC 2024 Grand Final (Scotland vs Bulgaria) – This House regrets the glorification of champions.
URL: https://debating404.com/serbia-wsdc-2024-grand-final-scotland-vs-bulgaria/
SPEECH_LABEL: Opposition 1st Speaker: Kaloyan Kotzev
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
Opening
This is the motion about team Bulgaria. The team who broke 31st but due to them believing that there is 1% chance to be here today, we continued to fight, and we beat the best of the best and hopefully today the final too. Don’t take this motivation away from us, don’t trust the lies of prop and oppose this motion today.
Set-up
What you’re going to hear in our team line? Firstly, on framing and what actually there is a nuance of champions? Therefore, we’re not as radical as prop. Then how people perceive this narrative? And how it is actually spread? Because they provide zero reasoning as to, why it is so toxic?
Then on first argument about motivation and why actually we have only motivation to become champions on our side of the house? And then on national pride and why actually we only have national pride on our side of the house? And why it is so important? Then on champions actually spreading their message in second.
So, what is a champion? There are three different levels of being a champion which directly engages with their definition.
There are national champions who are glorified on a local level and only like in the community of the sport. But also, we have international champions which actually are champions of specific regions. Therefore, they’re glorified by not only their nation but also everyone from the region. But thirdly, world champions, the ones who are glorified by the whole world and actually who make the people in the country the proudest. Therefore the bigger the achievement you have, the bigger the praise. Therefore, there is a spectrum. Therefore, no such stuff as they say.
Then on the narrative, how is this narrative spread? The champions are basically posting on social media; the people actually publishes afterwards because it has rating due to this narrative being spread.
Rebuttals
But what actually are the incentives of these people? Never proven on their side of the house. How they actually look like?
They’re extremely hardworking. They actually have done everything. They have determination, work ethics but also they have self-control all these good qualities to actually be such a champion. Therefore they want to spread the virtue to the of this sport which actually have taught them all this kinds of stuff. They are kind of important because at the end of the day if they actually don’t say all of these things their legacy is not going to be spread afterwards.
But also, they want to give to the community that have actually helped them backwards and therefore popularize it in this way and actually because they actually want them the best and therefore, they actually don’t want bad rep for it. But also, they don’t want bad rep for themselves. Because they want to spread their messages. We’re going to explain that later, but they don’t want bad rep, they have worked so hard for it. They don’t want to lose it. Therefore, people don’t want to discourage people from supporting them as they know that this way their message won’t reach the people. Therefore, we have extremely good incentives from these people. This looks like Leo Messi telling people that you should at least give football a try but also get these qualities. This is what actually is important and not make it a toxic as they say.
Then how actually people perceive it?
You want to become a champion, but you understand that this is extremely unlikely. Because people actually are rational. They know that actually these people are like minority. We have only two teams out of 68, it’s kind of intuitive dear panel.
But also, they don’t want the people to feel bad. They don’t want to feel bad because obviously they actually are going to set low expectations due to them not wanting to suffer in this way. Therefore, we have incentive both from the people who actually spread it like, the celebrities but also the people themselves.
But also, we stand before you today knowing that we have 1% chance when we actually faced Canada in Double Octos dear panel, I know we had low chances. Please understand this. They don’t prove anything. On their side, we have no glorification therefore no courage, no pride to the public, etc.
Argument 1: Motivation
We motivate individuals to become champions. Why with them, we, actually don’t people try to become champion in this way? Because we know the possibility is low and we get nothing from it. Why? Because we actually get no reward. Why? On two levels.
Firstly, the cup isn’t worth anything.
Because you actually get a piece of medal that has no recognition by anyone, because no one actually cares whether you’re a champion or not. Therefore, this is kind of becomes a piece of metal. Do you want this to be a piece of metal? No, I want to grab it, and I want to hug it in this way.
But also, no matter how competitive I am, you actually are not going to experience any value no matter if I have a personal thing to it. Because I get nothing as I am, no one recognizes that I’m better in this way. I am a social creature when I actually want my superiority, I want people to recognize it. If that wasn’t the case Germany in World War 1 wouldn’t have actually wanted world dominance because they wouldn’t have cared about people recognizing them, it’s kind of intuitive. Therefore, this is the thing.
But also, people actually know the possibility is low like people know that basically there are a lot of people competing. Therefore, there is a low probability but also you know that there are other people who actually have more resources than you like coaches, money etc. But also, you know that basically there are more people who have had more time to prepare in this sort of way. Therefore, if you fail you know that actually there is a really extremely low probability but also you get nothing. Therefore, you actually wouldn’t even try in this way because at the end of the day this is the important thing.
If they want to prove anything, they have to prove irrationality, because I believe people are rational creatures and obviously, they don’t want to actually feel pain therefore they’re not going to believe any of what actually they said.
Then why actually we will outweigh the possibility on our side of the house?
Because pride is important on our side of the house. Biologically we want praise from others because they recognize our praise this is the important part, but also, I want to feel my country to be proud of me which actually won’t happen because obviously they don’t care in their side of the house. But also, I want to spread my message afterwards. Therefore, everyone because everyone has a cause in this way therefore, I have actually want to actually have an academy afterwards for the disadvantage who actually didn’t have that many possibilities like me. Therefore, the scale tips on our side of the house and now I actively strive and notice, if you are a national champion, you want to also strive for more afterwards, because there is more to achieve. I am basically semi national champion, there is the national champion, but we want to be world champions obviously.
Then impacts:
People learn important life skills because they strive to be a champion.
Because even if you don’t achieve everything you do, determination actually is worth, work ethics, how to lose, teamwork, persuasion, like I’m doing right now. But why is this so important? Because you use this afterwards in your life, because you actually don’t get depressed when your girlfriend like removes you because you actually know how to get past it. But also, you know actually how to work better, therefore might actually get a promotion on my side of the house. But also, better teamwork, therefore actually a more valuable person in the company.
The second thing is, more people find passion.
Because I want to be a champion. Therefore, if I don’t succeed in something I’ll try in something else. Therefore, I can actually get this in sort of way and actually get what I’m actually passionate about.
But thirdly, Champions feel praised if they actually succeed. Therefore, I feel amazing due to all the explanations as to why people actually want to be recognized in this sort of way.
Argument 2: National Pride
Moving on to national pride. Why actually this actually exists? Because people don’t learn on our side of the house. We have publicity, we have people fans etc. But why actually we feel pride?
Because look, how nations actually are inspired by us. We are the 31st team breaking and everyone in the room knows this and they actually believe that this is possible next year for example. But you wouldn’t feel pride on their side of the house because I don’t get the superiority thing, because actually no one acknowledges it and I’m a social creature. Therefore no one cares.
The impacts are important because I get pride.
Imagine the thing that will happen in Bulgaria community when they actually acknowledges it, the media will go crazy I believe. But also, we actually care about our state more in this sort of way, actually become football champions for this instance. Because we actually now start a believe that our country has some hope in it in this way. We actually know that this is possible because we actually have hope, we actually have something that we are best at.
But thirdly I simply want to spread my messages, like messages are going to be spread far more easily. Because at the end of the day, I will follow something that actually people tell me to do, actually who the champions. Because at the end of the day, they are good people they have given me this good emotion and therefore I should go with them.
Closing
Let me tell you panel, what we did before sitting into this, while getting into this room. We sang songs about national heroes and champions. This is why we are basically the only team who has the heart and the soul to win this final. Please oppose.
