SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-serbia-wsdc-2024-grand-final-scotland-vs-bulgaria-this-house-regrets-the-glorification-of-champions.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Serbia WSDC 2024 Grand Final (Scotland vs Bulgaria) – This House regrets the glorification of champions.
URL: https://debating404.com/serbia-wsdc-2024-grand-final-scotland-vs-bulgaria/
SPEECH_LABEL: Opposition 3rd speaker: Tanya Anastasova
SPEECH_NUMBER: third
Opening
Recognition, this is the thing that all team opposition is striving for. This is the thing that we characterize as the core incentive and the core motivating factor, as the catalyst that makes you want to strive to be great, that makes you want to strive to actually perceive the thing that you’re doing, not just do it as a hobby.
Few things in this speech. First on direct engagement with the mischaracterization on props behalf and secondly on the clash of how people get accountability and why we should win this debate.
Clash 1: Mischaracterization
Panel, this is a motion about a narrative. Something that they failed to explain in all of their speeches except for maybe some late framing in third, is that in order to prove an argument why people will perceive it in a toxic way, you need to prove two things. First, you need to prove why the actor that is spreading this narrative has an incentive to display it in a toxic manner? And secondly why the people that are going to perceive this narrative meaning the general public is going to see it in a negative way?
Why is this so important? This means, that after explain why our original framing is enough to defeat theirs but also rebut their reasons means that they cannot access their mechanization in their first argument, which is all about “You only see the good things, they lie to you that it is only hard work, you glorify this person, you don’t see anything because you have unrealistic expectations.”
First of all, on how people will perceive it, even if it’s spread in in an extremely terrible way?
Why won’t you blame yourself for not being Ronaldo? Notice, you know that there’s a million different factors that contribute to his success. Even if he doesn’t go out of his way to say, “hey I pay 1 million dollars for example, for insurance, for my health and I have private massages every two hours.” You know that this is probably the case. Because you know that in life, in every single other aspect of life, people have privilege, and this is not isolated from the motion. This motion is not happening in a bubble, where this is the only narrative that exists. For example, even if this narrative doesn’t exist, you know that the rich kid in your class has better grades because it can pay for private lessons. You know that the guy when your work is more likely to get that promotion because he has better connections, because he has a Harvard degree and you don’t. You see this sort of competition and this sort of unfairness in all aspects of your life.
So, what does this mean? This means that when you see Ronaldo, you don’t expect to be like him because you have this reality check in your head. Because you’re an actual human being and not an idiot, so you don’t expect this from yourself.
Clash 2: Accountability
But also, two. If he doesn’t expose himself, there are other actors that are likely to expose his privilege and for example, if he’s using steroids.
This is the case because yes, he wants to make himself look good but there are other actors that want to make him seem bad like the opposing team. They’re likely to try to undermine him and say no he’s only successful because he has this money, because he has this other things that people can’t have and what we believe on our side of the house is actually that the publicity that you get uniquely with glorification allows you to have a scene to expose these sort of people and this is this is actually the precise reason as to why these people won’t be scandalous, these people won’t abuse their girlfriends; these people won’t try to cheat in a competition. Because now the reputation matters much more, now they are a public figure on our side of the house. Now they have to be careful what they do. It’s not about oh me being good at the sport and this being enough for me to win and to get the rewards. This is not enough, we have more accountability on our side of the house. This ultimately destroys their second argument, but I engage more with it later.
But also, why would this not be displayed in a bad manner? The only characterization that we hear from them comes in third; I believe that this is pretty late for framing. So, I’ll just give rebuttal to that.
Why does this athlete have an incentive to say, for example that he came from a privilege actor or emphasize on the difficulties and the hardships that he had in order to get there? He wants to make his achievement mean more.
Sure, the other side can say you hide bad things, because you want to look good, but this doesn’t mean anything. I believe that what looks good is a hero story. It’s a story of a person that came from nothing and is actually a hero now and why is this the case? Because the more difficult it was to get there, the more impressive it is. The more rare the occasion is that Bulgaria is speaking on a WSDC final, the more value people find it because it’s probably not going to happen anytime soon. So, this means that this person is trying to emphasize because this is what looks good not just them “oh I don’t want to look bad.”
But secondly, we believe that this at least have an incentive to look relatable.
Sure, if they only want to sell t-shirt, we believe that the way to do this is to look relatable and by doing so, showing the hardships that you have, making yourself look human so people like you and engage with you more. This is the reason why even the Jenners are doing publicity stunts – shopping to seem more human like, in order for their businesses to continue to strive and their careers to continue. But see, we explain personal incentives of these athletes and to spread the message, their purpose in life. For example, this messaging like determination is their faith that literally saved their lives and kept them going in times when it was difficult.
But even if you don’t buy any of these things, these people don’t want to be hated.
No matter how terrible of a person you are, you want to portray yourself as an understanding and good person. Because when people feel bad while watching your interview, they’re probably not going to buy your T-shirt, they’re probably not going to support you. But also, even if that’s not the case the media is not going to allow you to present yourself in the terrible way because they also care about the content of the footage that is being presented.
POI: Ronaldo has a literal money, monetary incentive to tell you that his success comes from his Nick boots which he’s being paid to advertise. Champions have no incentive to tell you that the reasons for their success are multifaceted. They have an incentive to lie.
Answer: Dear Panel, I believe you’re not an idiot. If Ronaldo tells you that, he’s only good at soccer due to his sneakers I don’t think you’re going to trust him. They never explain such things, again this narrative doesn’t exist in a bubble. There are a million other narratives. People are not idiots.
Rebuttal
But I want to call out a contradiction in in their team line sort of case. They say, people don’t tell you to work hard, they just tell you to be a champion on opposition side of the house but also, these athletes lie to you that it is hard work.
We believe that even under this premise which we do not concede to, people again believe that hard work is the way in the end. They continue to push which is again enough of a motivator on our side of the house.
Clash 3: How non-champion feels?
So, when the most important clash in this debate is, how do people that are not champions feel? We believe that we are able to win in this clash simply because the mechanization that they offer is that “oh people blame themselves” and then give a bunch of illustrations.
We say, no these people want to internally perceive this way. We also offer you external factors that contribute to the way that people perceive this. We tell you why you’re going to be able to connect with your community more in our second argument about nationalism. We also provide you with practical help that you’re going to have as an athlete under our side of the house, for example charities that give you the ability to do sport, that give you the precondition to be great.
But even if you don’t buy into any of that, we tell you, you have the ability to learn how to lose which will either transition into you trying another thing and you being semi good at it or maybe just learning how to deal with life because life is difficult. Because at the end of the day, we are the ones that make people feel good and they can say you still have rewards but if this was enough, the motion is symmetric. People will be jealous of the monetary price; people will be jealous of the cup itself. So again, this is a mitigation of the motion, not of team opposition.
Closing
So dear panel, if you believe that opposition is the side in this debate that defends champions, that defends how people feel, that is able to carefully and analytically analyse how people perceive this narrative, how people are willing to interact with it, you should vote for a very easy opposition today.
