SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-serbia-wsdc-2024-semi-finals-bulgaria-vs-greece-this-house-would-allow-violent-offenders-to-opt-into-pavlovi.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Serbia WSDC 2024 Semi Finals (Bulgaria vs Greece) -This House would allow violent offenders to opt into Pavlovian conditioning as a substitution for prison time.
URL: https://debating404.com/full-serbia-wsdc-2024-semi-finals-bulgaria-vs-greece/
SPEECH_LABEL: Opposition 1st speaker: Leo Marinopoulos
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
Opening
Proposition creates a dystopian society in which people are irreparably lobotomized, tortured by the very criminal justice system that claims to care about justice, and against the will of society which delegated the punishment of prison time. Proposition is cruel. Proposition is unjust. Proposition is the enemy of justice and restitution.
Set-up
Let’s be clear about what this is actually about. Firstly, this is about committing violence and feeling nausea then, but it’s also about thinking about violence — not made clear by proposition. I will make very clear why that’s very important.
Secondly, this is severe nausea. For you to have the incapacitation that proposition requires, that you physically can’t do the crime you know, alcoholics very often commit crime while under the influence of alcohol, they assault of other people. So presumably this is a lot of incapacitations that they’re doing — very, very severe nausea.
That will become important later.
But thirdly, Prop doesn’t get the magic wand their way out of this. Maybe this is why they’re afraid of the POI — because let me tell you how Pavlovian conditioning happens. It happens in a very specific way. You expose the patient to stimulus, in this case presumably images of violence — and then you punish them with things like an electric shock. So in their heads, they connect the images of violence and pain. That is what creates the image of nausea that they so desire. I hope you begin to see how inhumane this is.
What will our side do? Firstly, we will explain why proposition is inhumane and why that justice element here should be the priority of the debate. Secondly, we will talk to you about restitution, and Alexia will talk to you about harm.
Rebuttal
What does proposition’s first speaker do? I want to, at the top, notice that nothing that he does actually tells you why they support an opt-in system. In fact, all of it is about incapacitation and about retribution. To that extent, I think they would be absolutely fine with just imposing this on patients. They have to tell us why that isn’t the case — why they only support it in the cases of opt-in? I think the reason why is because they value autonomy. I’ll explain to you why there is a side that basically cripples autonomy.
The second thing I want to note here is in terms of their argument — in terms of why prison is very bad and why this is something that you don’t want to go in. Like the criminal record — you can’t have a job, you can’t provide for your family, skirmishes in the prison, you might be shivved in.
Firstly, instead of fixing this, proposition is forcing people to lobotomize themselves to get out of this. This is literally coercion. They did the argument for us about telling us why the alternative is something that coerces you into lobotomizing yourself. That sounds horrible.
But secondly, these are issues you can fix. This is like a U.S./El Salvador thing almost exclusively. Singapore has fixed this with a very retribution-heavy thing. Netherlands have fixed this with a very rehabilitation-focused system. Different methods can give very good results, right? And obviously those are very good examples. But we think across many countries, you don’t have the type of horrible things that proposition describes. It is on their side that the state doesn’t solve these horrible things and rather delegates this thing to the person lobotomizing themselves.
Argument 1: Why violence and thinking of violence are core part of the human experience?
But I will now show you, in the first argument, why violence and thinking of violence are a core part of the human experience. Therefore, it is unjust to allow people to lobotomize themselves in the way proposition allows.
Why is violent thought and violence a core part of the human experience? Firstly, because it’s hardwired into you. It is the natural extent of the emotion of anger. When you found out your spouse cheated on you, or that your friend was assaulted, you get massive nausea on their side because you think of that violence. The immediate reaction when you see or hear of your friend being assaulted — as they describe by the way, when they tell you about the father wanting to put the person who assaulted his daughter in jail, the immediate reaction of that father is to think about violence against that other person. It is core to our identity.
But secondly it is core to our imagination, to conceptualizing ourselves, the world around us, and our other identities. On proposition, you can’t think of violence — so if you go under the treatment, right? If you lobotomize yourself, you can’t think of Jesus on the cross if you’re religious. You can’t think of the revolution that birthed your country. You can’t even think about how, as a father, you would fight to defend your kids. You can’t think and conceptualize all of your other identities. Imagination is what allows us to be human, to think of the future, to think of who we are and our place in it.
Thirdly though, I think you don’t have, to a large degree, a choice in thinking about violence. Action movies, ads — all of these things always show you violence. Songs very often talk to you about violence. That’s nausea, debilitating nausea on proposition.
Versus, look, we get that freedom of movement is important to people, right? Prison restricts your freedom of movement — that’s an important right people have.
The difference we draw though is that freedom of movement is the right you have in order to achieve certain goals. I am able to go to church, for instance, because I have freedom of movement. The difference then that we draw with proposition and conceptualizing anger is that they are taking away your ability to conceptualize the things you want to do. Not only are they taking away your ability to do certain things with prison time, they’re taking away your ability to think of goals, to think of who you want to be, not just your ability to tackle those. And so, we think that this is unjust fundamentally for the following reasons. Firstly, because it is often coercive. Why?
(A) Because people can’t conceptualize what it would be like to not even be able to think of violence. We think that this is something we don’t realize how often we do — so we can’t even opt in to some degree, because we can’t think of what it would be like.
(B) Because of, to a large degree, all of the pressures they tell you — right? Economic pressures. For many people, they have to get out of prison now in order to provide for their families, in order to make sure their kids keep going to school and don’t end up in some broken orphanage. These are the things you need to do very often. We think this is the coercive pressure that forces people to lobotomize themselves to not be able to conceive of themselves and their future on side proposition, this is unusually cruel.
Secondly, even if it is not actively coercive — even if this is a free choice, we think we don’t allow people to choose to divorce themselves of a core part of their humanity. The reason why is because what you become is no longer able to make choices, no longer able to be a functioning member of society when you’re lobotomized. You are essentially killing your future self. This is why we don’t allow you to sell yourself into slavery, for instance.
What are the impacts of this?
Firstly, that this is a horribly wrong practice. The state loses and society loses their moral authority to impose punishments on people.
Secondly, and crucially, you’re crippling the ability of these people to rehabilitate themselves. On proposition, if you want to reflect on what led you to commit the crime you did, you’re thinking about violence. You’re thinking about what thoughts led you to commit violence. Therefore, you’re getting significant nausea. That is something prevents people from accessing the ability to become better people to not want to be violent in the future.
POI: I believe it is good to stop violence. That’s why, for example, we forbid Nazi parties from existing even though this is limiting people’s ability to express themselves.
Answer: First of all, I’m not even sure we limit Nazi parties, as he says, in many places. Secondly, I don’t think being a Nazi person is core to your humanity, as I just explained conceptualizing violence is.
Thirdly, I’m now going to explain why we think the priority of this debate should be justice. That is quite simply because, on proposition, presumably they agree that there are certain restrictions and punishments we can impose. We don’t support cutting your hand off for stealing. We don’t support doing horrible things to you or torturing you. Why? Because we recognize that these punishments are unjust — even if they would probably lead to greater deterrence. Therefore, we think the priority of this debate should be justice.
I’ll finally tell you why proposition harms the restitutive function of the criminal justice system. We think the punishment of a crime was chosen for a purpose by the judge or the jury. The reason was that this was the harm caused to society by your actions. We think allowing or even forcing a criminal into a different punishment is wrong, because it denies recognition of the pain to the victims. The person who murdered their boyfriend gets the same punishment as someone who assaulted someone else. That is fundamentally not recognizing the differences that exist in every crime. That is wrong. That is not something the criminal justice system should stand by.
Closing
Don’t allow people to lobotomize themselves, vote opposition.
