SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-serbia-wsdc-2024-semi-finals-bulgaria-vs-greece-this-house-would-allow-violent-offenders-to-opt-into-pavlovi.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Serbia WSDC 2024 Semi Finals (Bulgaria vs Greece) -This House would allow violent offenders to opt into Pavlovian conditioning as a substitution for prison time.
URL: https://debating404.com/full-serbia-wsdc-2024-semi-finals-bulgaria-vs-greece/
SPEECH_LABEL: Opposition 3rd speaker: Max Papaioannides
SPEECH_NUMBER: third
Opening
By the end of 1984, Winston’s mind was cleansed, and it didn’t matter that he had no bad thoughts. It didn’t matter that he was executed because, at that point, he was no longer a human. He was no longer someone with agency, with a capacity to think, with a capacity to self-actualize, to perceive what it is to be human, to perceive what it is to be himself. That is never something we can take away from people, and that is why you should vote on opposition if you believe that your humanity is an innate right, an innate right you can take away from yourself, an innate right that the state can’t coerce you into giving away.
I’ll talk about three questions in this speech. First of all, what are the constraints of the justice system? Second of all, why proposition’s measure stripped humanity in a coercive way? And third of all, I will engage in very direct weighing of why ours should be their priority.
Rebuttal
But let’s first address the biggest and largest flaw with proposition’s argumentation — that the motion calls on them to defend choice, that they would allow people to opt into this system. But none of their arguments are about that choice. All of their arguments are about how this is a good form of punishment, how it is better at incapacitating, how it is better at making the victims feel whole, and they say that this is a priority.
By logical extension, then, if this is the priority, then they should not defend allowing people to opt into that. They should defend forcing that on people.
And note, what opposition needs to prove in this debate is not the motion. So even if we concede all of their first speech and tell you this is a good punishment — we should give it to everyone, then opposition takes this debate. Because their case is not about the motion. Their case is about the info slide, and these are two distinct things.
But let’s say you don’t believe this is attack. Let’s say you believe that proposition still has a reason or case, even though it is entirely logically inconsistent to give these people the option.
Clash 1: Constraints of the justice system.
Firstly, what are the constraints of the justice system?
We think we respect the basic dignities of humans, the basic dignities that civilizations have fought very hard to get from their state — the state which did used to execute people out in the streets for stealing apples to feed themselves. We fought hard to get to the point where the criminal justice system has these constraints. Why?
Because it’s not just about the criminals, panel. Society is represented by the system it chooses to enforce, and that is a system no citizen consented into. Did they offend or did they not offend means that society still represents you — that the policing, that the punishment, is one which is done in the name of the people. And you can’t paint the name of the people by stripping others of their humanity and their name. That is the first reason as to why we have constraints on the criminal justice system.
And the second reason, we have constraints is because very often it gets it wrong. It gets it wrong when it over-prosecutes and convicts African Americans on three times the likelihood of a white American. It gets it wrong when 15% of convictions for the death penalty are later overturned after the fact even though the person was executed. And because it disproportionately affects the poor who can’t access legal defence and the minorities who are victims of discrimination, it is why we should say earn on the side of caution — make sure punishment isn’t irreversible. That is why we do not take away people’s legs, proposition. That is insane.
And third of all, because it enters a slippery slope. Now slippery slopes are generally bad faith arguments, but we don’t need to do that because they accepted the slippery slope. That by their logic, they would cut off people’s legs because they were convicted, even though that conviction might later be overturned. They would also, by the way, realistically be okay with preventative policing. Punishing people before the crime happens. Imposing a curfew so people don’t go outside. Because guess what proposition, night is when most crime happens. So, you wouldn’t want people risking all of that to prevent all of these victims from happening. You are probably the people who would also arrest someone before they commit a crime because some sort of algorithm or statistic has proven they are more likely to reoffend.
Even though we think this might prevent victims, we think that the oppression of the state needs to be limited by these constraints because the state has a much greater capacity to coerce you than any other citizen because of how asymmetric that relationship is.
Clash 2: Stripping away humanity in a coercive way.
How does then their form of punishment strip humanity?
Because I think it does something very simple — it strips a basic element of life. Element of life, which is in religion, which is in media, in advertisement, in your national identity, culture, etc. And we think this is not something you can scale, because the info slide very clearly says “severe nausea, if think about violence.” They don’t get to have the sort of scale of severity.
This isn’t, by the way, just about violence. Because the brain would go into self-defence mode. It can’t compartmentalize. Therefore, every thought which is tangential to violence would eventually be washed out. You would eventually cleanse your mind of all of that. And you’re losing so much of your capacity to think, so much of your capacity to engage with reality.
They come to you, they try to make a parallelism between this and the freedom of movement, which we limit. But the freedom of movement is logically secondary to your freedom to set priorities. By having thought, you move, because you want to do things. You can only want to do things if you can think.
And we think, look, you don’t always have control over your thoughts. You do over your actions. That is another distinction. And we can only punish you for those actions — because those have caused harm. We think that the thoughts themselves are harmless. They are innately human. And that is what you’re stripping away.
POI: Understand that if you cannot do the punishment, then don’t do the crime. You have a choice. Therefore, your principal argument is not important. Because you actually opted into this. You actually did this crime. Therefore, you actually are a bad person, and you should be punished to the severest extent, if you actually committed sexual assault?
Answer: Their logic would use a death penalty on everything. If you know the punishment, it means it is okay to inflict upon you, so long as there is a paper notice somewhere saying “death penalty applies for all” — they would apply that. That is the level of oppression and coercion team proposition stands up to defend. And we think that, yes, you might deter crime anyway from bicycle theft to a bar fight to sexual assault. But that is not the society and that is not the oppression we want to live in.
Clash 3: Weighing on priorities.
Let’s engage then in a bit of weighing.
First of all, certainty. We think that there are a lot of ways of getting people not to reoffend. In a lot of countries, the rate is about as low as 15%. However, there is certainty that the lobotomy will be catastrophic to you.
Second of all, the magnitude of harm. Because the majority of violent crimes are not sexual assault or murder, they are getting into a bar fight. They are violent theft, things which might be traumatic but did not strip the basic elements of your humanity. And we think that the punishment should be proportionate to the level of harm you have caused the other person. When you’re coercing people into taking such a massive harm, you are not being proportionate.
And lastly, alternatives exist. There are other ways of limiting crime. This is the reality we brought you in first and we also manifest.
Proposition too tells us that people don’t want to fund prisons because they think criminals deserve bad things. But people are also afraid of crime. This is why policing and getting limitations on crime is often the top voting priority, anywhere from national to municipal elections, which is why people accept the necessary funding for “bad” people, so they can build prisons, they can actually contain them. This is why we don’t just line up the firing squad and shoot every criminal — because people understand that this is a worthwhile sacrifice.
And lastly, they tell you, “Oh, you’re going to start fights, and you’re going to make prison wars for everyone.” We put people in special detention for this. Solutions exist. If someone is being violent in prison, they are taken to a different place where they can’t affect violence.
Okay, what is this debate very clearly about, dear panel?
They tell you they try to get fewer victims. We don’t know. And in reality, maybe they do. But what we do get is that we ensure the state doesn’t strip you and doesn’t take away the most basic of your humanity and for that reason, we are not countries like Iran, which execute people for crimes.
Closing
We are not the type of country which chops off your legs for criminality and that is the type of society you want to live in — if you’re a criminal, or if you’re someone who gets wrongly convicted of a crime. Very proud to oppose.
