SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-serbia-wsdc-2024-grand-final-scotland-vs-bulgaria-this-house-regrets-the-glorification-of-champions.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Serbia WSDC 2024 Grand Final (Scotland vs Bulgaria) – This House regrets the glorification of champions.
URL: https://debating404.com/serbia-wsdc-2024-grand-final-scotland-vs-bulgaria/
SPEECH_LABEL: First argument then, on motivation and life experience of non-champions.
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
The thesis of this claim is that glorification creates harmful internalized views of success which damage each and every one of us.
Why does glorification make those who do not achieve champion status sad? Three reasons here.
a. They assault unrealistic expectations.
People tell you that it was all their hard work that got them to that place, not the privilege that they were born with, or the ability to gain a mass amount of support. But notice also many champions just have an incentive to lie to you about why they succeeded. Tom Brady has a vested interest in telling you that he got where he was through his program of supplements, because guess who selling them to you? Tom Brady.
b. Encouraging of constant comparison.
You are always told that the champions in your respective field are those who have achieved the most success and those who are the most happy. This means you are constantly comparing yourself to them and you feel bad when you are not winning. But most importantly here, it doesn’t matter whether you yourself experience happiness when you always think that happiness of others is more important, the happiness of those at the top of the competition always exceeds the joy that you are feeling. Therefore, you never achieve actual satisfaction but,
c. On the concealment of harms.
Because a focus on champions, a glorification of their success necessarily means not focusing on the hardships of what has achieved them. What would this means is looking at Simone Biles, watching her routine, watching her raise her trophy but never understanding the years of mental trauma that she suffered as a result of being a participant in that world. This means when you look at champions, you see only the positives, never understanding the hard work that had to go into this. This is intuitive panel, because it is just not possible for you to be told every single way in which champions are harmed, every single way in which they suffered. But it is easy for you to see a shot of them raising their trophy. You will never understand what truly went into these harms.
On the comparative, when we focus on hard work, we don’t care what the outcome is, we don’t care who won but we platform those who have tried the hardest we platform those sports people, those politicians, those social heroes who have come from backgrounds where they have been the most marginalized, who had to put in the most amount of work and effort in order to get to the success that they’ve achieved but here,
d.  It just feels isolating.
That is to say when I every time, I turn on the tv or open a book see a person who has achieved far more than I ever feel capable of, I feel like I am the only one who experiences this. Because I see the champions are the majority given, they are given such a large amount of media coverage, so I always feel as although I am exclusively the one who feels this way. You are able to get an environment in which people believe that champions are a minority. Therefore, it is not presented as so amazing, but it is presented as a reflection of your ability and your requirement for these sorts of things.
Impacts then, three Folds
1. Firstly, people just feel terrible.
Because you’re never able to access success when every chance that you feel to feel happy, to feel content is always tempered by the idea that someone who has achieved more, someone who on paper is more successful than me might be feeling happier. You never stop to enjoy what you have but rather constantly project how your enjoyment could be greater.
2. Two, you just stop trying to achieve.
Because when you constantly believe that other people have achieved more and that they have access to exactly the same resources that you do, you feel like a failure when you are not able to ascend to that level so maybe you just stop trying, maybe you stop pursuing your dreams, because you think that it is unachievable. Whereas under our side, when we focus on the hard work, we tell you that even if you fail in meeting the absolute burden of success what matters more is how much you’ve enjoyed it, how hard you’ve tried and how difficult it was for your journey.
3. Thirdly, though some groups may just try too hard.
That is to say because they see that success is glorified in this manner, they see as something that is inherent to their ability to enjoy any form of life. They do things like dope to create better prospects for them in the athletic world, or they listen to Michael Phelps when he tells you that only reason, he was good at swimming was constant training not because of the physical advantage that he was born with. This leads you to try over hard work yourself into the ground all for no benefit at all.
Before I move onto my second argument on abuse of power and accountability, I’ll take that point.
POI: I think, anybody who has been to a single competition knows that champions are a minority.
Answer: Yes, but who are you sitting, watching right now? The people who have risen to the top of the tournament. So even if that is true that you understand that people are in minority, you are constantly focused on what it feels like to stand up on the stage and give that speech, not focused on your own enjoyment of the competition which you yourself have participated in.
Argument 2: The abuse of power and accountability.
The thesis of this claim is that champions inherently exist in a world of abuse. Without being able to call them out because of the glorification of their position, we risk endangering people.
Why then can we get no accountability under a system of glorification? That is simply because people reject the assumption that this could be true. When your fans are so passionately dedicated to you as an individual, that they are willing to bully and harass anyone who speaks out and says that thy are abused by you. People just don’t want to come forward, people don’t feel they’re capable of speaking out because of the abuse that they will face.
Three reasons, why fans reject accusations?
a. They see you as a perfect individual, do not believe that you have a dark side but rather believe that everything about you is inherently ideal.
b. They point to jealousy. So that is to say, your fans tell you that Harvey Weinsteins victims were simply jealous of his success. That’s why, they were trying to take him down. They don’t tell you that these people actually had anything to gain. But,
c. The impact of media and companies. That is to say when someone is a champion there are many actors who have a vested interest in their success and will always jump to your defence when something like this happens. The people like Alexander Zverer, who are known to have abused their girlfriends but whom the tennis world will never stop from playing because it is successful for them to keep him in the tournament. These abused victims are just afraid of backlash that is created by the fans of these glorified celebrities and so will never speak out.
Why champions are likely to abuse them?
a. An inherent desire for self-improvement. We all have inherently a desire to take something from someone else. We learn and we treat ourselves to not listen to these tendencies. When opposition tells celebrities and tells champions they are gods they fall back into the patterns, but
b. Champion become accustomed to taking things. Winning a match means losing it for somebody else and that becomes something you’re okay with and
c. The interaction with other champions just means that this is something you’re okay with. The impact to this is that powerful people get away with abuse, people feel terrible and marginalised communities are never given the benefit that they deserve.
Closing
Because glorification harms those who are present in those glorifications and those who are aside from it, we are so proud to propose.
