SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-serbia-wsdc-2024-semi-finals-bulgaria-vs-greece-this-house-would-allow-violent-offenders-to-opt-into-pavlovi.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Serbia WSDC 2024 Semi Finals (Bulgaria vs Greece) -This House would allow violent offenders to opt into Pavlovian conditioning as a substitution for prison time.
URL: https://debating404.com/full-serbia-wsdc-2024-semi-finals-bulgaria-vs-greece/
SPEECH_LABEL: Proposition 3rd speaker: Tanya Anastasova
SPEECH_NUMBER: third
Opening
Being sexually assaulted, being beaten up — these are things that are intuitively your right not to happen to you. These are things that proposition is standing against, and things that are the reasons today you are proposing.
I must admit I was touched by these speeches, but unfortunately, this is not a theatre. It was beautiful, it was amazing. However, dropping examples and impacting something that you never actually explained why is the most important thing but rather explain what is important. They run from the responsibility to be comparative, and they run from the responsibility to actually prove their mechanisms rather than just giving examples and illustrating until forever.
So, what is proposition going to do in this speech? Firstly, on the principal clash by simply, firstly rebuttal, and secondly, outweighing the criminals as actors that we should care about. And secondly, rebuttal and why we should win this debate.
Summary
Firstly, let me clear up what you have from proposition of debate.
First argument, we explain to you why we are literally saving lives. We’re saving new people from being harmed. We’re saving these people from experiencing things that literally limit their body autonomy, that limit their dignity. Things like being, for example, beaten up are things that you didn’t have control over and things that harm you both physically and mentally. We believe that as a criminal justice system, it is our main goal to limit this sort of thing.
Secondly, we speak on retribution. We explain to you why the victims feel better when they feel like they have done a good deed, when they feel like they aren’t going to live in paranoia for the rest of their lives that this monster is going to come and harm them again. We explain to you why this is probable, simply through the prism of the perception of these victims and how exactly they feel. Never engage it.
Thirdly, on prisons, we explain to you why the prison will become less violent, which then results into criminals being less radicalized when it comes to their actions after being let out of prison. Because let’s face it guys, they will exit prison at some point. The majority of life sentences are not the case. The majority of time, if you do something even if you are a sexual assault, you get 10 years max. So, when these people exit, we should care about what they’re doing.
Clash 1: Violence.
Okay after rebuttals of their principal arguments, let’s bring some nuance into what they’re talking about. They say it’s in your nature to think about violence.
Sure. But that’s what people are they’re talking about, I don’t understand — they’re talking about offenders that are already convicted. This person already harmed someone. This person already, for example, committed an armed robbery. So, we know who to give this sort of medication to. These are people that are already criminals and when you have cleared that up, rebuttal as to why the principal doesn’t work.
First of all, by the extension of their logic, these people don’t control what they’re thinking about, so they shouldn’t suffer for it. Okay?
So why should we send them to prison, where they’re intuitively going to suffer, when these thoughts transition into actions? And this is something that we have proven in our argument — as to why this sort of medication is effective and why it prevents, even they can see that this medication literally prevents you from thinking straight and you having life abilities. Therefore, you probably concede to the fact that you cannot offend simply because you don’t have the physical ability to do so.
When this is true, we don’t believe that it is moral by their logic to send these people to prison, where they’re limited of their freedom. When they’re not only stripped of freedom to what they think, because their social group is bad, because the environment is depressing, and all of these things, but you’re also restricting their ability. You can’t go out. You can’t choose what activities you do in prison. So, these people are much more limited on their side of the house. Even if you choose to care about these people again, by the extension of their logic, they must explain as to why this sort of treatment is much worse than prison, which they comparatively never do. They just impact why it’s bad.
Which, by the way, leads me to the next callout, which is that this contradicts their second claims. When they’re trying to claim that “Oh, but it’s too little,” but then, “It’s too much.” For example, it’s too little of a punishment to give this person the pill and give them the sort of medication, but then it’s too much for them to be principled. You have to either buy their first argument or the second.
POI: If it were true that it would decrease crime by 10%, that’s a big number. Would you cut off the legs of people who commit serious assault?
Answer: Of course. Very happy to do that.
Why? I don’t care about these people. I could not care less. Why? Simply weighing as to why the actors on our side of the house — which are the basic civilians, which is you, which is me, are more important than this person who is already criminal.
Clash 2: Actors.
