SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-serbia-wsdc-2024-semi-finals-bulgaria-vs-greece-this-house-would-allow-violent-offenders-to-opt-into-pavlovi.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Serbia WSDC 2024 Semi Finals (Bulgaria vs Greece) -This House would allow violent offenders to opt into Pavlovian conditioning as a substitution for prison time.
URL: https://debating404.com/full-serbia-wsdc-2024-semi-finals-bulgaria-vs-greece/
SPEECH_LABEL: First point of weighing: these are immoral actors.
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
This is something that comes even in our second speech. These actors, for example, limited the body autonomy of another individual, limited their rights. Therefore, it is justified for us to limit their rights — which is why prison exists and the concept of the criminal judicial system exists. It’s okay for us to limit them when they have limited the rights of someone else. So, they never explain what the problem is there.
But comparatively, we must care more about the members of the public. Because they obey the law. Because they sacrifice their full freedom, for example, to obey the law and to live by certain rules in their life — just to have that freedom. And they deserve to have that.
But secondly, the citizens are functional citizens a part of society. These people are working. These people are obeying the law.
On the comparative, prisoners either stay in prison forever, where they do nothing but just sit there and don’t contribute to society in any way — or secondly, they just exit prison and join gangs, which are actively harming the state that society is in.
So, what is the bottom line here, dear panel?
The bottom line is that when we don’t care about the actor, we shouldn’t care about the severity that this actor is suffering, when we prove a more important actor that is suffering much more.
Which leads me on to my next point of weighing. When on our side of the house, we’re preventing crime from happening. We’re preventing things, for example, like people being killed, from people being sexually assaulted. We believe these are things that harm you much deeper than you just getting nauseous and falling onto the floor a few times.
Rebuttal
They present rehabilitation as a thing that exists — but they never explain why it works. Sure, the state does it, but why is it effective?
We explain to you why it is not effective. When radicalization in prison exists, when these people are not willing to admit to themselves that they did something wrong, in order not to feel terrible for themselves as preventive mechanisms. This is something that they never prove in our case in that sort of way.
Then they say, “Oh, but some victims don’t want it.”
Okay — but some victims do want this. So, what we bring to you in this debate is a comparative as to why the future victims are more important than retribution of the old victims and why is that the case?
Firstly, for future victims are far more in number than the current victims. Because when this person exits prison, for killing, for beating up one person — he is going to exit and beat up another person, and then another person.
Second point of weighing: we believe that our case proves why the severity of these crimes will actually increase after this person has gone to prison. Due to radicalization, due to him having no other choice. So, you have this acceleration of impact if you buy, that they’re equally important, when ours gets worse over time, you should protect the people, when more violent crimes are to happen.
But thirdly on solving, what is moral and what is not is up to every single person’s judgment in this room. Everyone has their different life story. Versus practice – which is something that we agree upon. We agree upon that everyone in this room should live. We agree upon the fact that everyone in this room has the body autonomy not to be sexually assaulted, not to be beaten up. So, if you believe that the most important thing in this debate is to protect the most fundamental human right — which is to be protected by your state, which is to have your life, which is to have your dignity.
Closing
You should vote for the most important fact that you are protecting the normal citizens. And today, you are proposing.
