SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-indonesia-wsdc-2017-grand-final-england-vs-singapore-this-house-supports-restrictions-on-free-speech-to-comb.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Indonesia WSDC 2017 Grand Final (England vs Singapore) – This House Supports restrictions on free speech to combat the rise of right-wing populism.
URL: https://debating404.com/full-indonesia-wsdc-2017-grand-final-england-vs-singapore/
SPEECH_LABEL: Third thing on this: They rely on propagating fear and prejudice.
SPEECH_NUMBER: third
Again, because they cannot unite their coalition through legitimate policy, because the people they draw together are brought in through vague and conflicting terms. They are reliant on common fears and prejudices.
The takeaway from this argument is that the key tenet, the key appeal of lots of these individuals is inherently irrational. That is to say, they rely on the propagation of a fear that probably should not exist. All of these fundamentally undermine the debate necessary to productive, competitive electoral politics. Why?
First, because when you twist and muddy the truth of a debate, you challenge the reality in response to which that debate existed in the first place. When fake news and alternative facts are placed on the same pedestal as actual factual realities, you cannot have a functional discussion about certain issues. You cannot have a functional discussion about undocumented workers in the United States when it is a “fact” that Mexicans are rapists, in the same way that it is a “fact” that Nieto is the president of Mexico.
Second of all, likewise, you also cannot have a debate between two reasonable sides that engage with each other and provide for the voter fundamentally a response that is which of these two options is probably better for your interests. When one of those sides systematically fails to engage with the other, both as a consequence of the fact that they use literally who those other people are as a way of attacking them rather than attacking their policies. Second of all, they have terrorized the people that support them and struck fear into their hearts to the extent that they will not hear logical reason.
Second strand of this argument is that: these individuals attack the very framework of democracy.
Part of that anti-establishment narrative on which they rely is to attack institutions like courts, like electoral processes. That is why we see individuals like Gert Wilders in the Netherlands and Donald Trump not only threatening to punish the courts if they get into power but refusing to accept election results. Insofar as democracy relies on the balance of power, this is supported both by the fact you give a massive mandate to the individual you give your vote to, but also by the fact that there are some checks and balances by an independent body to stop that person abusing that power. Democracy is fundamentally perverted when justices and the courts are fundamentally too afraid to do their job.
The takeaway of this whole argument is twofold:
First: If you weigh this debate based on democratic integrity and the rights of individuals, the very presence of right-wing populists makes it harder for people on the ground to come to terms with who they are voting for, why they are supporting that person, and ultimately what they should draw out of that.
We would draw the analogy to perjury insofar as we’ve been happy to limit free speech in the short term, if it ensures the integrity of a process that is vital to our society in the long run.
Closing
So proud to propose.
