SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-panama-wsdc-2025-grand-final-india-vs-australia-th-prefers-a-world-with-a-strong-belief-in-seriti.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Panama WSDC 2025 Grand Final (India vs Australia) – TH prefers a world with a strong belief in Seriti
URL: https://debating404.com/full-debate-panama-wsdc-2025-grand-final-india-vs-australia-th-prefers-a-world-with-a-strong-belief-in-seriti/
SPEECH_LABEL: Opposition 3rd Speaker: Alice Liberman
SPEECH_NUMBER: third
Opening:
India’s strategy is to minimize their own impacts in the way that they are able to get any change. They try to outframe everything we say, but they don’t give a single reason why things like homophobia or hating interracial marriage are not also values. Why people don’t believe things that aren’t also true, because there is a group of people up there above you who is not living your life and not understanding your specific context, but they do hold beliefs that you don’t agree with anymore and that you now have to listen to. When you mess up, someone is watching you above you on their side. Someone who knows and believes you are a bad evil person. You internalize that too. They cannot get away with minimizing their own impacts and trying to outframe the bad one.
The first way I’m going to win is explain why bad values do persist and what that easily wins us this debate. But second, I’m going to talk about why even if only exclusively good values exist, we are still the ones who win.
Clash 1:
And first on those bad values, because India only focuses their case on good values, so try to do that at the same thing, try to have this on their ground. But this is a debate about values and desires and some of those are bad and things some people don’t believe in anymore. What do they say on why bad values or things that people don’t agree with anymore that are regressive aren’t passed on?
First they say they adapt well and they are vague. No, they don’t. The comparative is, things that adapt well cuz you learn morals from things like film and media, from scriptures that are constantly re-evaluated like religion. But they just do not change over time on their side, because they ask you to imagine a radically different world and that radically different world is one where someone learns something from the previous ancestor before them. They give no example of how this is able to change. If every single person is learning what the previous person told them, I’m unclear where the change happened. They need to tell you specifically why that was something that was able to happen. These are vague, but a lot of these things are preserved really well and they are not vague. These things are turned over time and it is really easy to say that you should not marry someone of a different tribe. It is really easy to say that you should not be gay or that you should suppress any desire you have. That is damning for their side.
Then they say that people are able to recognize societal context. So those bad things aren’t passed down. But like why? In this radically different world, I think the person who is your great great grandmother who is up there in the sky actually does not understand that things change. Maybe has never met a queer person. They don’t explain why this actually changes. This is a person who is judging you. The people up there have not seen change.
But we also give you another line of analysis which gets a very thin response. We tell you that even if there are good values passed on, they are internalized very very badly. And if people suspect that there is something that says they should not do something, for example, they should not be gay , that is something they do believe in.
They just tell you that no one is asking you to go overboard. You get to decide what your value is. But no, this person is up there dictating your life, dictating your social standing, dictating who you are as a person. You take that to be absolute. That is incredibly terrifying because the entire content of your self-worth, something you likely really care about, something that gives you a sense that you deserve to live on the planet, is entirely dependent on that thing. That means people are like incredibly likely to feel incredibly scared of overreaching and stepping out of that.
But second, we explain that these can be co-opted by bad actors who want you to believe certain things, who are really homophobic, that makes you believe you need to follow. So maybe no one is asking you to go overboard, but you do go overboard because you think that you need to, that explains then that even if you only got a few situations where someone held on to those terrible beliefs, that is horrible. It means that you can’t do things like come out to your family. You can’t divorce your hateful partner. You can’t get into a relationship with a person you love. That is the biggest impact in this debate and one that the response is so incredibly thin.
Third, because this is massive in your life and your severity, you cannot make decisions that would have been good for you.
But second, this is massive on scale. Cuz if you believe their characterization, that we live in a world where no one can ever change, where everyone believes this from birth, then obviously that is something that affects many, many, many individuals. That is something that stops you from being able to live out your life.
We then explain that that’s just stopped social progress. Their one response is to say that like kindness is something that will make you likely to accept social progress. First, this is contingent on their earlier characterization, which I told you was untrue. But second, that doesn’t respond to anything we tell you at first, or second, because we tell you that people are unlikely to consider other opinions because you are more beholden to your ancestors than the people around you. That gets no response. That explains uniquely why people are unlikely to accept social change in any situation.
But the last thing to say is that we told you this was a principled obligation. The people had a right to control their own lives, they give you no response to this principle, it’s independently debate winning for all the weighing we give you at first.
POI: If your entire family thinks it’s a sin to be gay, how are people coming out on your side of the house either? What’s the margin here?
Because maybe your family thinks you shouldn’t be gay, but you think it’s okay. You understand that feeling. You understand there are other people out there. On your side, your entire self-worth is determined by the people up above, your ancestors who existed many many years ago who do not understand that and do not understand that belief that is independently debate winning us, that is a thing that massively on scale affects people’s lives on severity and even if it only was a small number of people who slip through, that is massive for their lives that ruins them.
Clash 2:
Next I’m going to talk about their path to victory, why even if it is only good values that are passed on, it’s still bad for your life. Their claim is that you need this ( Seriti ) to have good values. But capitalism is symmetrical on both sides, they don’t explain why it doesn’t exist. But second, I just think this argument is an exaggeration, because yeah I do not live by (Seriti) , probably no one or very few people in this room does. I do not think we are evil people, I think we do have a sense of community. We explain why that’s true.
First, because often morals serve us as well. Because if I give you a birthday present, I expect one back. That was a nice thing to do, but morals do serve you on the long term. Second, there are just plenty of ways that people receive these morals, but they change over time. They learn from things like film or TV because when people learn things, they push them out into the world. That is something that is able to change and able to adapt to certain situations.
But second, even if you thought people were slightly less moral, they never explain why that is the massive impact in this debate. Because the only thing they’re able to say is that you don’t prioritize individual success, so you are like better to the people around you, you prioritize your community. First, they never explain why this is individually a good thing. Because the worst actors slip through on both sides. The worst actors who don’t have a sense of self-worth and who don’t care about things, who are like morally corrupt and have no moral compass, still get through on their side. The difference is the good people who cared about their self-worth and cared about their morals never prioritized success, the bad people were them running in the world.
But second, we explained that sometimes you do need to put yourself first over your own values, because maybe on their side you never leave your partner because that would disappoint your family. That’s really bad for you. You stay in abusive situations. We would give people a right to be slightly morally discerning. That is really, really good for them. We explained that community is something that’s independently good. It gives you a chance to be with the people around you and love them. Those are the benefits you get, the difference in the way it is enforced on their side is particularly bad.
Clash 3:
Next then, on how people feel because they just say that current generations need this because social standing is so fleeting and so external, so you just focus on capitalism and how much money you have.
First, many of these things aren’t arbitrary that they describe. Many people are happier if you do have more friends and you put in the effort to make more friends. But second, in order to get any of this benefit of meaning, you have to follow everything your ancestors say perfectly. And people cannot do this. And when you stay on your deathbed at the end of your life on their side, you focus on the things that you did badly that your ancestors looked on and said that that gave you no sense of self-worth. People feel much, much worse on their side.
But second, we explain to you the unique set of harms that exist on their side. That your happiness like is dependent on every single time you mess up. Every single time you have an urge to do something bad, every single time you make a little mistake, which all of us do every day, that attacks your self-worth as a person. You are not only incredibly scared to make any mistakes, any issues, every time you think something bad, you are scared of that.
Why then is the fear of messing up much worse than the benefit of hope they might be able to give you? First, we explain that is a much bigger impact because feeling bad is a lot worse. But second, note that people just focus on the bad that they feel more than the good that they feel. You’re likely to be able to feel good from a lot of different external sources, which are probably much bigger like senses of happiness like they tell you themselves. But when you did something bad and you were focused on that, that was something that deeply messed with your self-worth and your happiness, that means you were just more unhappy on their side.
Then they tell you about elders. That these people get to leave behind a legacy and you can now care about your values and you leave something behind. But this is not a material legacy because maybe people would be happier if they made an impact in the life that they lived. Maybe too many people do go, like out of this world, without saying I’m proud of you or I love you because things like this make them feel like they are able to have control over lives otherwise. They are able to leave a legacy that is independent from them. We would prefer that people did this themselves. At the end of this debate, you should just believe that the bad values that are passed down are the worst things. They ruin people’s lives. They’re a massive scale. But second, the good values they pass down are at least very much mitigated. But secondly, they don’t explain why that is the most good thing they can bring. We were the ones who made people happier. They could make choices that served them rather than people who existed 100 years ago. So, so proud to oppose.
Opposition Reply Speaker: Maya Garg
First on the principle, we explain that this is an unjust imposition on one’s agency regardless of the consequentialist outcomes India stands behind. And we note that this is an analogist to any other good constraints of agency, because this controls the entire way you structure your life. It controls the lens through which you decide your ancestors or through (which) you decide your actions. And the weighing of this principle was simple. It was debate winning. It was absolute.
Because firstly, in a debate where some good values existed, some bad values existed, human psychology was different for every individual. Everyone had different ancestors. This was an incredibly certain harm that cut through human psychology.
But secondly, this principle is all-encompassing and absolute. It isn’t just an extra harm for us. It is a harm you must not take regardless of any practical consequences because we let people partake in dangerous activities, because we realize people ought make decisions, because they know themselves best and they live through the consequences of it.
Moral violence cuts through every practical harm because having choices in life is what makes us human. It is what makes us individual. This principle was the most important thing that stood under the at the end of this debate. Affirmative also never responds to the principle. So you should take our characterization and weighing as true.
Next, let’s talk about the individual. The first important thing I want to note is that we symmetricize people valuing good values at second, which means that people can find their source of meaning on our side, as they do on their side. So all of their benefits in their first argument is completely symmetric.
So what you should focus on is our harms.
The first and most important and certain claim that we explain is that regardless of whether these values are good or bad, the choice to make them instills anxiety and uncertainty into people when they feel guilty for rebelling, when they do not know what choice to make. And it doesn’t matter if these were good or bad values because you are different to your mother, you had different relationships to her, you have a different personality to her. You grew up in a different world, so her values are not applicable to you. Which means there will be a point in your life where you do not know how to follow or match up her values or the values of your ancestors into your daily life. There will be a point in your life where you have to evaluate whether loyalty is actually good for your relationship. And you will have a gut instinct that tells you you shouldn’t be loyal. But you will also know that your grandmother and your mother were loyal and it worked out for them, and that causes huge amounts of anxiety in an individual.
Secondly, we explain that values are bad, values are aggressive, values are sexist, and values are homophobic. And they try to symmetricize the harms of this and they claim that we don’t respond at third affirmative. But the problem is we do, because we explain that you can get away from your family and not feel guilty under our side, but you do feel guilty under their side. We explain that your family is far more accepting under our side, whereas it is far more less accepting under their side when your family believes that your philosophy should be shaped by those values.
The last claim we explain is that good values are not universal. They are bad in extremes and you should allow individuals to figure out their lives. This team is incredibly paternalistic, they think that individuals cannot, do not have the capacity to find meaning in their lives. But for 2,000 years, we have as humans. For millennia, we have as humans. We have found meaning in art. We have found meaning in interest. We have found meaning in friends. All of which we can control. Maybe you cannot control your economic and social mobility, but you can control whether or not you’ve work hard enough to maybe get a little bit of a better job. This team underestimates the power of humanity, and for that they must lose.
Lastly, I’ll talk about social progress. And the key problem with their claim here is that it is extremely circular. Their logic is status quo biased because maybe now we think that homophobia is unkind. But the problem is, back then people thought it was a sin, so they thought it was bad to be (homosexual). So their logic that you want to be kind and therefore you will not be homophobic does not stand. They are trying to co-opt the good parts of the status quo and let themselves have it. That’s not how it works, we get the status quo.
Our characterization is far more likely because we explain that people are far likely to have more inertia under their side, when people think that an attack to their values is also an attack to their ancestors, when people are empowered by their ancestors values. And because under our side people are just far braver to stand out, people are far braver to disagree with their families. And maybe this only sped up social progress by 10 or 20 years, but that impact was huge on scale, on magnitude. So you should let us win the debate on all three fronts.
Proposition Reply Speaker: Avni Kaur Chadha
Team Australia hinges their case on these being the most regressive values, but that fundamentally does not engage with the way Seriti is propagated. This is not oneliners and instructions that your ancestor has left behind, but these are values that they tell you to live by. These are values that are positive, these are values that are often vague and therefore you have the ability to interpret. This is living a good life, this is being honest, this is being integral. At the end of the day, that gave you immense value. Friends and clubs never determined social standing. On their side, they had to deal with the fact that shackles of capitalism made people feel worse about themselves and it’s horrific that they drop this in their third opposition.
I’m in this speech going to talk about how people conceptualize of their own identity and how they find meaning in social standing on either side. Because we were clear, Seriti is unique because it is a source of thinking about your social standing that you are able to control and interpret, and they can point to alternative sources down the bench in terms of your friends, in terms of your standing or community.
But one, those were sources of meaning that were incredibly hard to access given the way the status quo works. The status quo is one where we have an overemphasis of individualism and capitalism, that forces you to pursue success and money to be able to gain social standing and that often takes away from your other communities.
But second, even if these other sources existed, it never translated to anything as grand as your purpose and standing. Because hanging out with your friends as we tell you is fun in the short term, but when you get home, you feel empty from not being able to access higher social standing, or not having a sense of purpose or what your life is based upon. And that is a unique thing that we were able to give people on our side.
And I want to weigh this against the claims that they bring you.
First, I think this is a clash that is independent of whether these are good values or bad. We’ve given you reasons down the bench that these are more likely to be values that are good. But even if that is not the case, even if it is imperfect, that doesn’t negate the benefits that people are able to derive from it or the value they get from it. And I want you to intuition this; think about religion. Religion occasionally propagates incredibly conservative values, but people still find incredible solace within it. We understand that this is exclusionary to certain people, but those are people that still have the ability to disagree with their values of their ancestors because this is a strong belief and there are always people who will be outcasts to social norms. Strong doesn’t translate to absolute. You can still find alternative communities. But for most people, this was something of incredible value and this was something that gave their life a purpose that it otherwise lacked.
But second, they have a claim on restriction of choice. I think that claim doesn’t recognize how this changes the world. Because even if it is the case, this is incredibly restrictive to your choice, people are largely fine with that because this is how they’ve grown up, this is normalized. The restriction of choice is not something that feels incredibly harmful. In contrast, what they’re able to uniquely get is meaning.
Third, we think this is something that is uniquely accessible to most people because it is easy to abide by. These are often incredibly vague values, this is characterization they have not engaged with on the bench. We have no reason (as to) why your ancestors are giving you incredibly specific instructions. It is often very hard to do, so they don’t want to be contradictory and they don’t want to have values that don’t evolve with time. And what that means is it is often really easy for people to stick to these values. Even in the instance that you think you’re not being perfect, it is you who gets to interpret it and therefore you are likely to interpret this in a way that is far more positive.
In contrast, their benefit in this debate was one of social change. One, I think that is a benefit that is of far lower margin because it is true that people are still conservative, it is true that people are still regressive and that is largely because often you still have conservative values that will be predominant in families and that will still restrict agency for people that they care about. That is a lower margin claim.
Second, it is a claim that probably only accessible in the short term, because in the long term we think the reasons for why we get liberalization are quite distinct to this norm and we have the ability to be able to adapt. We have the ability to change our understanding of these values and apply them in a way that is more positive. So even if it is the case that this harm occurs for some time, we think this is a harm that we have the ability to correct for going into the long term. But finally, at the end of the day, social change was always going to be speculative. It was always going to be hard for people to contribute to movements, go out of their way to donate. If anything, we thought that was more likely in a world where you told them to abide by positive values that we told you in our second speech. This is a benefit they could not guarantee. What we could guarantee you was this was something that gave people incredible amounts of meaning. And that is why you bought Team India.
