SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-serbia-wsdc-2024-semi-finals-bulgaria-vs-greece-this-house-would-allow-violent-offenders-to-opt-into-pavlovi.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Serbia WSDC 2024 Semi Finals (Bulgaria vs Greece) -This House would allow violent offenders to opt into Pavlovian conditioning as a substitution for prison time.
URL: https://debating404.com/full-serbia-wsdc-2024-semi-finals-bulgaria-vs-greece/
SPEECH_LABEL: First, address their prison claims.
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
They say prison is really really bad. You lose connection with family. Prisons are violent and apparently you have gangster friends and this is the only person you can hang out with after you come out of prison.
But I want to bring some reality to this debate and tell you that there’s a spectrum which exist for violent crimes. That is to say 40% of violent crimes that exist in the US vary from example one-to-one assault at a bar, all the way up to more consistent abuse such as domestic abuse. The most extreme cases would be like Jeffrey Dahmer really really bad. But we think this is the minority of cases which exist. The majority exists within that side of the spectrum.
Now why is this important?
Because prison is important for both sides of the spectrum. Why? Firstly, because there’s a government incentive to do rehabilitation under our side of the house in the terms of the capital and the money that we would be using. They’re using this to lobotomize people, get doctors, and get electric chairs. We’re using that money to invest in that rehabilitation. We have the fiat to do this.
But secondly, because under our side of the house, prison is better because the individual, in the vast majority of cases from this side of the spectrum, can understand and override the feeling of anger that drove them to disrespect the law in the first place. We allow them to reflect. We allow them to talk about this with psychologists. We allow them the time to think about this. Because, by the way, we don’t make them fall on the floor at the first thought which they have.
The third reason is because prison, we think, is enough of a deterrent in the status quo. At the point where, in the most extreme cases that they talk to you about, it’s very, very long. We think this deters people enough to the point where they can make the decision to not actually enact the crime.
But even if they override that deterrence, we think it is so much better when in prison, they are actually able to override that. Their side is the one which, by the way, even if we don’t deter people, eventually after they come out of prison, they’re unable to self-defend. The individual that, by the way, did a one-time crime in which they hit a guy at the bar, in their side and from their model—the next time that they will need to self-defend for whatever reason, they can’t do this because they’re going to drop on the floor and turn purple, and their eyes are going to go crazy because you’re literally lobotomizing them.
This is inhumane, and this is causing so much more crime. In the sense that if people can’t self-defend from future crimes, you also have lower the ability for them to be able to escape that crime in the first place.
Point of contention 2: What victims want?
Secondly, then on victims feeling better — which, by the way, is very, very patronizing for you to assume that victims want to inflict this horrible pain that is eternal on people. Because note, this isn’t just monitoring your thought, by the way, all of the time. It is also something that is extended, which is to say that this is something that is irreversible. So their side is when to in places punishment irrespective of the magnitude of the crime. So, whether I am — I did the bar thing — or whether I’m Jeffrey Dahmer, same thing for proposition. And by the way, it is forever. I have this nauseous reaction for eternity. Very patronizing for you to assume this is what victims want, even though they felt the pain of what it means to actually be violated. This is horrible.
But secondly, right — if it is the case that courts decided that the right decision is this — for this person to go to prison, at the point where the individual has the choice to opt out of it, this is really bad. Because victims don’t find comfort in the fact that someone gets to play around with what punishment they will face — even if they think it’s worse because they’re guilty — or even if they are not quite sure how badly this lobotomy is, and they choose it because they think it’s easier. Giving these people choice is really bad, and victims are much less likely to want this.
Point of contention 3: Societal limits to criminals.
Lastly, very quickly on prisons. They tell you it’s expensive. By that same logic, would you also kill them? Would you also torture them because they take space? Send them to an island? No — because as a society, we understand that that is absurd, and there are limits to what you do to the people that commit crimes, even if it is the most extreme. But obviously, in the cases where people are very violent in prison, you still put a detention in them, right? You lock them up for like a day. This is something that works.
They don’t tell you why prison time is something so insufficient that they have to do this immoral thing to people across the scale — regardless of what crime they did.
Argument 2: Why Pavlovian conditioning places a disproportionate burden on third parties?
My own argument then as to why Pavlovian conditioning places a disproportionate burden on third parties — at the point where it’s extremely traumatic and disruptive to everyday life. And note, this is going to deal with the vast majority of cases where people, for example, were convicted of manslaughter for a car crash, or they fought at a bar, or because they engaged with violence because of drug use.
The first reason why there’s third-party harm is because, practically, it limits the activities with which you can engage them. For example, you can’t go out with your family because you know that, for example, there’s a risk of you having a nauseous attack outside, or you’re consistently worried about the stimuli that you might have.
The second is financially — every time you have this, your family is going to have to consistently call an ambulance, call a doctor, because obviously this is going to have health effects that will make your body go nuts.
But thirdly, emotionally — are you telling me that your co-workers and your peers are going to watch you, like, reap on the floor every single time you think about violence? This is insane. It’s so traumatic on those around you, at the point where it’s so unfair because they didn’t choose this, you chose to have this for you, but the rest of society didn’t. Those who see you and deal with the aftermath didn’t.
Closing
On the side of humanity: Opposition.
