SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-indonesia-wsdc-2017-grand-final-england-vs-singapore-this-house-supports-restrictions-on-free-speech-to-comb.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Indonesia WSDC 2017 Grand Final (England vs Singapore) – This House Supports restrictions on free speech to combat the rise of right-wing populism.
URL: https://debating404.com/full-indonesia-wsdc-2017-grand-final-england-vs-singapore/
SPEECH_LABEL: First, why is it a legitimate viewpoint?
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
Now, I’d like to point out their characterization actually shifted from first to second. In first, it was about these nice five scientific characteristics about what right wing populism is. Second speaker it’s, incitement of violence and hate speech.
To be clear, we were very clear on our stance. All their problems about violence — we can prosecute the act of violence. They need to tell us why persecuting the speech is the most important thing in this case. Furthermore, we talked about how we are willing to err on the side of caution when it comes to hate speech, we think is generally clear when conditions are egregious enough.
I want to be clear; they did not actually touch our analysis about the general centrist consensus. All they say is “the Republican Party can represent you”.
Do you know why the Republican Party represents them now? Because Trump was elected. Because the Republican elites realized that for far too long, we have been leaving these individuals behind and not caring about their interests. To be clear, the Republicans did not represent these people before the right-wing came to power.
That is why, when they say, “this drags politics into the gutter”.
I would say it is not a gutter. I would say it is views that people want, views that they actually stand for, policies they actually care about. And I think that these individuals do know what is good for them. So, we can agree with their first speaker’s principle, that “democracy is about a balance of rights.” Yes, we think you’re taking away the fundamental right for these individuals to have a party stand for them. And we think that is a right we should protect.
They said, “Ah but that’s fake news and it’s misinformation and people are debating on truth and facts.”
I think generally people are becoming more aware of partisan biases. I think democracy actually solves for fake news, because fake news discredits its source. Think about it: Alex Jones basically spread the lie of how Sandy Hook was a conspiracy created by the government. After that, he pretty much lost all the credibility he had. I think people can discern. And people who are voting for Trump, maybe they understand there is fake news, but they decide the policies that he is standing for are more important than this fake news. I think that is a choice they should be able to make, even if they don’t believe everything he says. It’s just that the fundamental things he stands for are important.
Furthermore, we think that on our side we pointed out very clearly how sometimes what they call “unacceptable” are things that we need to respect. They completely dropped my first speaker’s two tiers of how sometimes unpalatable language is essential to expressing thoughts. How in team affirmative, the police starts in a way that discriminates against the not well-off, being born into an elite aristocracy is not a privilege we all share. For some people, it is understandable that it is important for them to be able to express their thoughts in this language and we think that’s an important thing we should respect.
Furthermore, we talk about the colour and intensity of thought, how something they call unpalatable are a way and the only way for these individuals to express their true political choice. So, the solutions that these politicians stand for may not be perfect, but we think that the point is the solutions are far closer to what people actually want. Even if they’re not perfect, you’d rather have an imperfect solution that’s congruent with what people want better than a proper solution that does not align with what they want at all.
To be clear: Trump has done things. He’s withdrawn from the TPP. He has gotten many automobile factories back, creating jobs in America. We think these are important things we should have.  any chance popularity forces this piece. I see the point. If a politician doesn’t deliver, they become less popular. So, democracy corrects for this.
POI: Many acts of violence in the status quote, what did that do for the hundreds of Muslim women in America who were attacked after Trump was elected?
Answer: Sir, we think they actually fail to show the link between how right-wing populism is this exclusive thing that results in all of this violence. We think that all the mass violence has been happening for ages. And the point is that they have failed to show us why this is exclusively this is the way they can have. Furthermore, we think we were very clear that the idea of violence is something we can prosecute, and it is decreasing when we prosecute this violence.
Point of contention 2: How do we improve politics?
We think that the point is that we told you how they undermine democracy, and this deals directly with their second speaker’s substantive. We think it’s not irrational, when these individuals engage in this politics, there was never a golden age of politics when we all rationally debated opioid effects. Politics has always been about character, always been about who people are. And we think that if people on the ground vote us, decided that is what is most important for them, that is something that we should respect.
Furthermore, they say, “You attack on institutions.”
We think it is generally a good idea if you keep a check on courts, when courts are full of elites who do not care about people on the ground. When the entire judicial system is stand against you because it is views of elites who do not understand what you are — I think that is fundamental violence upon your dignity. So, if they want to talk about violence, I would say the lack of representation is violence to these individuals.
Furthermore, they just dropped my first speaker’s analysis about how it is incredibly insulting for them to tell us that minorities always cower in fear. We think that’s not true. We think many minorities are indignant, practically in social media, like this, there is actually a community of people around you, about you, who will tell you why this is important to you. We think on this ground alone minorities are protected on our side.
But the point is, second substantive on abuse. How these very five scientific criteria are incredibly subjective. What is political correctness? What is nativism? And in that case, we told you how they exercise a chilling effect on discourse, how they literally give governments the tool to crack down on individuals. We think that’s wrong.
Argument 3: How Team England harms political discourse?
My constructive for today on how team England harms political discourse. So, this argument takes them on the absolute highest. Even if this debate is to be judged on the metric of preventing misinformation, even if it is to be judged on the matter of making speech more palatable — why is it that on our side we are able to better meet these metrics?
Know that teams England’s policy is necessarily known to the public. For example, if Breitbart is punished, he would have to retract his statements and provide a public apology to people on the ground. This leads to a few harms.
Firstly, team England pushes people toward less credible news sources.
This policy literally reinforces the one strongest narrative that drives mistrust of traditional media sources like CNN and the liberal establishment is out to control what you read. Now that everything published in traditional media has the imprimatur of government approval, it is seen by right-wing populists as an extension of government control. This is terrible. They go to alternative news sources. They provide a less credible form of news. And obviously, we cannot completely censor WhatsApp chains, forums, face-to-face conversations that occur in daily life. Therefore, on the other side, they ensure that people turn toward these less credible news sources. And to be clear, this is not about the most extreme individuals. It is about the vast majority of individuals on the fence, who subscribe to both Bret Ryback and The New York Times on Twitter whom team England pushes straight toward less credible news sources.
Secondly, team England only ends up amplifying the unsavoury aspects of right-wing populism.
In the status quo, many right-wing populist leaders are exercising a significant moderating effect because they want to become more politically viable. In France, Marine Le Pen kicked her father out of the National Front because he was very strongly in favour of Holocaust denial. We want this effect to continue.
However, the main reason why these leaders can engage in moderation is because they are currently trusted by their supporters as legitimate ideological leaders. When these leaders say that something is wrong, their supporters trust it. But if the state itself starts to crack down on these forms of unsavoury speech, these leaders lose their moderating ability because it now looks like the state has forced them to make concessions. Any attempt to moderate now looks like it has been engineered by the liberal elite. So, if they want to talk about making political speech better — I think it is harmed on their side. If they want to talk about decreasing misinformation — I think it is harmed on their side.
Closing
From first speaker, we were very clear: We stand by the baseline that silence is oppression. We oppose.
