SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-serbia-wsdc-2024-semi-finals-bulgaria-vs-greece-this-house-would-allow-violent-offenders-to-opt-into-pavlovi.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Serbia WSDC 2024 Semi Finals (Bulgaria vs Greece) -This House would allow violent offenders to opt into Pavlovian conditioning as a substitution for prison time.
URL: https://debating404.com/full-serbia-wsdc-2024-semi-finals-bulgaria-vs-greece/
SPEECH_LABEL: Proposition 1st speaker: Kaloyan Kotzev
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
Opening
Panel, imagine a world where every time a violent offender gets this treatment, there is one less offender who is going to recommit. There is one more family that thinks that at least there is one single person less. But also, there is no one else who is going to feel the same due to this person not being any more of a criminal. Not like on the comparative, where we know that prisons aren’t effective, where prisons are bad, where prisons don’t do their job, but are simply there to make people suffer. And this is the case that is going to come from proposition.
Team—line of prop then, setup then firstly on why less violent crime is committed on our side, then why victims feel better on our side, and then why prisons are firstly better due to having less crime in them but also will save a huge chunk of money.
Set-up
So then, to set up:
Firstly, everyone who actually committed such a crime will opt in for the simple reason that they don’t want their freedom to be taken out. It is pretty intuitive. What we’re talking about—we’re talking about crimes where actually violence or basically intent of violence or threats of violence are actually there. For example, assault or threats to actually be shot if you don’t give the money for a person, or any sort of violent robbery, or threats of you actually being shot for something else.
Otherwise If you don’t opt in, you’ll simply go to prison. Therefore, if they argue otherwise, then both sides become symmetrical. Therefore, both sides have to take their burden. This is kind of important.
Argument 1: Why less violent crimes are committed?
Okay, then moving on to the first argument: less future offenses happen on our side of the house. The setup of this argument is pretty intuitive. This argument is about what happens after you actually leave prison—what happens after those two years that you get when you beat up somebody, or ten years if you committed sexual assault, for example. This is factually true. If they want to argue that it’s a life sentence—good luck—that’s just not the truth.
Then why prisons don’t stop you from future crimes and even make you a worse person and a more violent criminal?
Firstly, you lose connections with family, friends, job, etc. Therefore, once I go out, I have nothing to go back to. I have a criminal record, so no one is going to employ me. I have a bad reputation because stigma exists towards people who have been to prison. Therefore, who actually I am? I’m basically forced back to stealing because I have no other income, we decenticise to violence too, this is the second mechanism.
Because prisons are violent. They are skirmishes, there are battles for influence or gangs even. This means you actually need to survive; therefore, you actually do anything. Your survival instincts kick in—you get into jungle mode, have to fight for your life, become extremely violent simply to survive even if you’re not that kind of person.
Thirdly, you still remain in a gang after you get out. Because, you’ve gotten out, but now you have nothing to go to. You’re either going to be threatened or your only friends are from this gang in prison. Therefore, you still remain there, still recommit—at the end of the day, you have to make something out after that.
Finally, and maybe most importantly—now you get more violent afterwards. Therefore, Once you get out, the chances are even greater. Now I’m even more likely to commit crime—violent crime—than before. That is why, for example, over 50% of people in the US actually recommit their crimes and also become violent as I explained.
Then why this actual method and conditioning fixes this?
Firstly, on incentive — I want to stop the pain biologically. Biologically, we need to survive. Our brains have evolved in a way that we don’t want to suffer pain, because if pain actually equals suffering — which is something that our brain kind of biologically just makes us refuse it since that’s how actually for example, death is caused, etc.
But the ability is pretty simple — I cannot beat up anyone or rob someone because I feel pain and nausea when, for example, I break my hand. I cannot write. This is the same logic here. meaning that we have far less crime on our side.
What are the impacts there?
He basically — on their side — he can recommit again. How does this look like?
This impacts new lives who haven’t been touched by crime before. Therefore, they go through the same exact trauma. But also, their families also suffer.
For example, if — for example — a daughter is beat up. Therefore, all her family is going to struggle. But also, people’s businesses where they have been robbed are going to be suffering too because now, if, for example, they’re poor and couldn’t have afforded to reassure it, then their action is screwed.
But also, it will be even more severe. Why?
Because I am a violent person, obviously. Therefore, I want to basically seek my revenge. I have been radicalized in my prison cell. Because I have said I have nothing else to do.
But also, I’m used to violence because I’ve seen nothing else for the past two years. Therefore, it is basically even if I was violent to some extent, now I’m a more violent person in extreme ways. Then, why is this extremely important? Because future victims are more than the current ones. Because more and more people get born. Therefore, more and more people can actually be attacked. Therefore, if we prove that their lives of victims at stake who are actually in the future who are more then we on violence by far.
Important notes here: Please acknowledge that, we know that they’ll talk about retribution, right? But here is the thing: people are extremely emotional where they actually feel such circumstances in violence, they are therefore irrational. And I would never believe the sentence is enough. How does this look like? If I can get like five to ten years for this case — if my daughter gets assaulted — it won’t matter. Because if the criminal is taking this five years, I’ll some want something harsher, like prison or death sentence. In this way, because this person assaulted my daughter, dear panel, I want him dead. It is kind of intuitive.
Therefore, this isn’t as important of a clash because, no matter the sentence, it will never be enough. I have no closure. I have no retribution. Therefore, at least we want to get something — by getting someone to not commit anymore. Or such people to actually not be on the streets. To actually have one less person to actually recommit such things, and less people to feel this horror.
Argument 2: Victims feeling better.
Let’s go to mechanization. You know that no one in the future will feel the same way. Why? Because I know this person wouldn’t recommit. Why? Because the state actually wants me to feel okay, so they actually explain how this process works and I’ll never ever worry again but even if that’s not the case, after some time, we have statistics that these people actually don’t commit again, and I’ll know that this isn’t the case. But also, this hasn’t happened on their side of the house because I know that this person is still out there and believe me, I know that these are so paranoid. But also, I actually believe that maybe he wants to revenge this way. Therefore, I’m even more paranoid.
What actually leads to closure? Because I feel empathy on our side of the house. Because at the end of the day I have empathy towards myself and the protentional new people who actually are going to get to the new victims. Because at the end of the day one less bad person—I’ve done my duty to protect one more person who committed this. But I also fear the revenge of the actor. Therefore, I actually know that this monster will search for me afterward. I’ll be in extreme paranoia. Because at the end of the day I have no control and also, I have fear. And when that combination actually acts—I am extremely, extremely, extremely, I am going to be extremely anxious and paranoid, and suffering.
Closing
Please vote against that. Propose.
