SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-indonesia-wsdc-2017-grand-final-england-vs-singapore-this-house-supports-restrictions-on-free-speech-to-comb.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Indonesia WSDC 2017 Grand Final (England vs Singapore) – This House Supports restrictions on free speech to combat the rise of right-wing populism.
URL: https://debating404.com/full-indonesia-wsdc-2017-grand-final-england-vs-singapore/
SPEECH_LABEL: Proposition 1st speaker: Arthur James
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
Opening
Ladies, gentlemen, fellow wizards, muggles — right-wing populist parties, individuals and activists worldwide are a threat to minorities and to democracies. Side government solves this problem.
Set-up
What are our definitions in this debate? We think courts should decide if these are right-wing populists using five criteria.
The first is nativism, i.e., the scapegoating of immigrants and ethnic minorities. The second is hostility towards elites, particularly institutions like media and the courts. The third is accessible to authoritarian approach to law and order. Fourth, disregard for political correctness and truth. And faith and crucially is that because of a desire to appeal to a broad coalition of disaffected individuals spanning the socio-political divide, and often with different political desires, they often have a shallow policy agenda designed to appeal to as many people as possible. What does it look like? It looks like Trump in the US, Duterte in the Philippines, the AFD in Germany.
What’s our model for dealing with these individuals and groups?
We would institute a range of restrictions on free speech of political parties, and practice that goes from shutting down websites and individuals which advocate on their behalf, like Breitbart or My No You’re Not List to not providing them with a platform, not reporting on them in the media or allowing them to speak in town hall events to banning them from social media or in some instances, being happy to ban them from contesting elections entirely. We think that’s an extension of the precedent set in the banning of the neo-Nazi party in Germany and of states around the world in banning hate speech. We would note that while the unique phenomenon of right-wing populism is a problem today, were a similar problem to arise with left-wing populism, we would support this policy there too.
We have two burdens in this debate:
The first is to show you that this policy is justified. The second is to show you that this is an effective way of dealing with the danger that right-wing populists present
With that in mind, we’re bringing you three arguments:
First, we combat the threat to minorities. Second, this harms the development of solutions to the problems which lead to right-wing populists coming about at all third In Ed’s speech: how this is a fundamental affront to democracy
Before I move on to my first argument about how we actually combat the threat to minorities. What are the principal parameters within which this debate takes place? Two things.
The first is that democracy necessitates a balance of rights, because the rights of individuals sometimes contradict each other. My right to wave my wand in the air contradicts Kenzie’s right not to get poked in the eye. We believe that protecting the most vulnerable from physical harm weighs up more than the ability of certain individuals to have freedom of speech. I’m going to be dealing with that principally in my speech.
The second principal parameter which this debate takes place within, is that democracy can only happen if its truth led. When you have are anti truth, you forfeit your right to the protections of free speech. Ed is going to be talking to you about that principally in his speech.
POI: What exactly is this one characteristic that is so exclusive to right-wing populism? Wouldn’t you end up banning a lot of other ideologies that have similar characteristics.
Answer: Okay, we told you that courts are good at deciding whether things and individuals fall into certain categories. We gave you literally five characteristics that define right-wing populist movements. If courts decide that an individual or a group is part of that movement, then they’ll ban those movements. Then they’ll institute these kinds of free speech protections. Not sure what they’re getting at there.
Argument 1: How we combat the threat to minorities?
Onto my first argument, which is about how we combat the threat to minority groups.
Because right-wing populism thrives on riling people up and channelling their anger. That’s because right-wing populists are overwhelmingly problem- and not solution-oriented. Why?
Because the reason that they’re so popular is that they’re able to appeal to diverse coalitions of individuals often with very little in common. Someone living in a trailer park in northern Florida has basically nothing in common with a soccer mom living in the Midwest. But they’re united by being broadly disaffected with the status quo. The policy demands of these people, economically and socially, are very different. So in order to maintain this coalition, right-wing populists do two things:
Firstly, they promise very shallow things. They have very unspecific policies or unsubstantiated catch-all magic wand policies.
Secondly, they focus on the problems that their followers face as opposed to the solutions which divide them. In an attempt to flatten the causes of these problems into something nominally easily solved, they often blame minority groups for all of these issues. That means drug dealers in the Philippines, Mexicans in the US, Moroccans in the Netherlands are blamed for all of the problems which the followers of populists face.
The reason for blaming minorities leads to increased violence is threefold:
The first, They take the anger that individuals have and direct it at a minority for a political advantage. This anger goes beyond normal anger because the issues that these individuals face every single day suddenly become tied to minorities.
Secondly, they change permission mechanisms because they make these views mainstream. That means people think it’s okay to be or act racist because views have been legitimized by others, whether in rallies or in votes.
Thirdly, when these populist parties get in power, because they can’t implement legitimate policies without alienating a segment of their voter base. Instead, they’re forced to use discriminatory policies to distract from their failure to solve problems. So, Trump is forced to try and implement a Muslim ban to distract from the fact that he can’t actually solve the problems that his voters are facing without alienating other parts of his voter base.
What are the impacts of this?
You create a society where minorities live in fear — fear of being attacked, fear of being spat on, on their way to school, fear of not being able to get a job because they’re discriminated against in interviews. In extreme cases, their freedom of movement is restricted when they’re too afraid to leave their homes. Look, we don’t think it’s surprising that in the aftermath of the Brexit vote hate crimes went up 40%, that during the US presidential election, hate crimes against religious and ethnic minorities went up 41%. That’s not surprising. And our policy solves this by reducing the ability of right-wing populists to spread their hatred.
Argument 2: How these harms the development of solutions which affect the disaffected?
My second argument is about how these harms the development of solutions which affect the disaffected.
Look, we think there’s a legitimate debate to be had over some of these issues, right? We think that disaffected people’s concerns unquestionably should be listened to, and there’s a conversation that we should have about, for example, how undocumented workers are able to undercut wages. Why does the free speech of right-wing populists actually undermine that debate? Two reasons.
First, because it drags politics to the right-wing populist gutter. Because right-wing populists try to take chunks out of the voters of centrist parties by doing things like scapegoating minorities, those centrist parties are forced to move to the right in order to try and keep hold of those voters. The DPP in Denmark was able to pull the Danish Liberal Party right to the point when a party that previously was pro-immigration and asylum seekers ran on a platform of explicitly limiting the number of asylum seekers able to come into that country.
The second way that they distort the politics and harm the development of solutions is because of a lack of nuance in the language that these politicians use. Populists campaign using charisma and shocking language to get free airtime and to show themselves to be saying what the people are thinking. Other parties, in order to compete, are forced to also use shock tactics. So one nation in Australia was able to change the debate on immigration to the point when “the yellow peril” was a phrase that was actually commonly used. We think you can’t have a proper political debate when the language that you’re using is un-nuanced, when you’re conflating asylum seekers and refugees and immigrants in a way that only populist parties force politics to do.
On our side of the house, we’re able to escape the noise of populism. We’re able to rise above the din, and we’re able to have a conversation between centrist politicians which leads to actual nuanced, legitimate solutions to these problems. In Canada, they were able to have a nuanced conversation about immigration, free from the noise of populists, which means they were able to impose an immigration policy that is actually fair and that actually helps the individuals on the ground.
Closing
Because Team England is the side which protects minorities and actually helps solve the issues which lead populist parties to come about in the first place, I beg to propose.
