SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-serbia-wsdc-2024-grand-final-scotland-vs-bulgaria-this-house-regrets-the-glorification-of-champions.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Serbia WSDC 2024 Grand Final (Scotland vs Bulgaria) – This House regrets the glorification of champions.
URL: https://debating404.com/serbia-wsdc-2024-grand-final-scotland-vs-bulgaria/
SPEECH_LABEL: First of all, on the characterization of this narrative.
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
Opposition tell you this narrative is inherently going to be spread well for two reasons. One, that this is done by athletes and second of all that those athletes have good incentives. Let’s dispute each of them.
1. One, that is done by athletes.
Because they never proved that athletes are the one to spread this narrative, they simply assert it. Two things. One, I just think consumerist capitalists businesses have more capital than athletes to spread this narrative. This looks like co-opting an athlete’s name and saying if you buy our product you’re automatically going to become as good as them. They have more capital expertise and spread in the world to use this narrative and use the athletes name for harm.
But second of all even if it is athlete that’s spreading it, I just think they are constrained. Because if you go on a TV show, you’re constrained by the type of questions that the media ask you. If you’re posting on social media, you have social media managers that manage your reputation. That constrain what you can post. So, if our incentives about these groups are true, even if it’s athletes that are spreading it, they are still constrained and therefore to spread negatively.
2. Secondly, even if it is athletes that spread it, we dispute the fact that they have good incentives. They give you two reasons why athletes are inherently going to spread this narrative well. a. They tell you it is for their legacy and b. They tell you, they want to give back to the community.
On a. For their legacy. What would you rather panel? Would you rather people seeing you as Godlike, as absolutely amazing because it is only the Gods that stay in history. It is only the Gods that are remembered, or would you want people to see you as flawed, as insufficient, as not as amazing as you’re glorified? You would much rather the one on the Gods. Therefore, you’re not going to talk about your challenges, you’re not going to be talking about your flaws because you do not want people to see you in that way.
b. On giving back to your community. I think the best way to give back to your community internally you think is to emphasize your success. It is not to go on media and say here are all the barriers that you face, you’re never going to get that success. It was very rare that I did it. It was to emphasize the success in the first place. It was to tell them it was possible that inherently means not focusing on the flaws but focusing on your success. Therefore, all our narrative characterization is true.
They give you a push back in O2, that the counter factual is not hard work because it’s not mutually exclusive.
But yes, it is. Because the people spreading this narrative; athletes, media businesses all have a trade-off to make. They all have a limited amount of time and resources. Do you focus on the hard work and the process, or do you focus on the successes and the outcome? Therefore, since a trade-off, we see the counterfactual is on hard work that is not mutually exclusive. What this means is all their main pushes to our case of motivation fall out of the debate but when we get onto that clash, we’ll be over charitable and say even if their characterization is true, how we still win.
Clash 2: The abuse of power.
On the second clash then, on the abuse of power. Their second argument on national pride, which is pretty under analysed but even if we accept it as true, simply feeds into this cause. We tell you, when there is greater national pride and support for an athlete that goes beyond rationality and is something intense that grows from nationalism. That is when you get a lack of accountability. That is when fans fail to call you out because they believe you’re standing for your country because they do not want to lose that nationalism.
Their argument fed into ours. What did we tell you? We told you that champions are unable to be held to account for two reasons. a. They are painted as perfect and b. Any attempts to counter is seen as jealousy. Because everything is competitive in environment.
They tell you that, “oh you’re going to be called out by the previous champion”. Two problems. One. If our analysis is true for one champion, it is true for majority of champions. Therefore, they never explain why the previous champion is likely to not have participated in the same scandal? Why the previous successor is not also likely have to done that doping? Therefore, they don’t want to call you out cause that implicates themselves.
But second of all it doesn’t respond to the analysis. Cause, we tell you why even if there is a call out, that call out doesn’t reach the fans. That call out doesn’t damage that person’s popularity and their platform that still exist even if there is a call out.
The second thing we tell you is, it’s incredibly likely that athletes are going to participate in these scandals and to participate in this abuse of horror. They give you two responses. First of all, they simply assert that there is no bad incentive. Two problems.
One. Not responsive. This is assertive.
But second of all, it simply proves there a greater likelihood under our side of the house. We tell you that every single human has innate desires, every single human has some negative feelings in part inside of them. We tell you when you give athletes the opportunity to exercise this with their power, with their influence, with the capital that they now have they’re more likely to do it. We still win on likelihood.
Secondly, they tell you that athletes don’t want to damage their reputation.
Again, it wasn’t responsive. Cause we tell you the fans are going to support them either way. There’s a mob mentality. You in inherently believe that your athlete, that your politician is perfect, is Godlike, that they can never be wrong. So even if someone is telling you to the contrary, you’re never going to believe them.
The impact of this was clear. There’s going to be more scandals such as sexual abuse but also in politics this is incredibly damaging. It means that the corrupt past clings on to power. It means that democracy is never allowed to flourish. The impact of this is far worse than motivation. In their second, they tell you at worse they say oh people get more skills. I think the impact of this clash is far more important than that.
Clash 3: Motivation
Let’s go to motivation and win on their only pass to victory. So even if we at, worst wash this out, we still win this debate. They tell you that they’re likely to get more motivation under their side of the house. Few problems with this.
First of all, Sophie tells you the reason you’re motivated to participate in sports is not because of winning but is because you care about it, because you have a passion for that sport and it was never about winning.
Secondly, she tells you, it is unlikely to feel good under their side of the house when you win because
a. it is incredibly hollow. At the point to which it is glorified, the actual success is never going to live up to that glorified unrealistic image, but
b. I want to add on to this there’s likely to be a mass vast amount of pressure, success is never going to be able to overtake. If you have to work every single night until very late at night, if you feel like anytime, you make a mistake you’re letting many people down, success is never enough.
But third of all, they tell you, pride and we are inherently social creatures.
But we tell you, you can still get recognition from those around you, your family and friends are still going to be proud of you no matter what. That was not the glorification of champions we tell you that recognition and success and applause from your family and friends was actually more important cause those are the ones around you. Those are the ones who care about, those are the ones who interact with more. At that point, I don’t care if the rest of the world sees me, I only care about those around them.
Let’s move on to our case. We tell you why they’re likely to decrease motivation under their of the house. Sophie’s already dealt with their only response when they tell you oh there are different levels of athlete. The impact of this was pretty clear.
One. You simply feel terrible on the inside.
But second of all, you’re either going to simply stop participating in that sport or activity or you’re going to try too much. They tell you, you’re unlikely to stop, that is fine.
I’m fine with the second impact on burnout and trying too much. Cause we tell you that is what is most important in this clash. If you’re burnt out, you’re never able to get the skills they say. Because you have to take time of that sport or activity to focus on your mental health or because you become physically unwell, because you have pushed yourself into the ground. Burnout was the most important thing in the motivation clash. Their arguments can be true, but we push it to the point to which it is harmful. They never explain why people stop working when it becomes too much at the point to which their whole analysis was predicated on people working hard.
Closing
At that point we are best for the champions We were also best for society who are held under the oppressive grip. So proud to propose.
