SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-panama-wsdc-2025-grand-final-india-vs-australia-th-prefers-a-world-with-a-strong-belief-in-seriti.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Panama WSDC 2025 Grand Final (India vs Australia) – TH prefers a world with a strong belief in Seriti
URL: https://debating404.com/full-debate-panama-wsdc-2025-grand-final-india-vs-australia-th-prefers-a-world-with-a-strong-belief-in-seriti/
SPEECH_LABEL: Opposition 1st Speaker: Lucas Lu
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
Opening:
Unlike what team India tells you, this isn’t just a debate about community, or living by values which they are unable to name on and which seem vague and amorphous throughout that entire speech. This theme traps people into living lives that their ancestors wanted them to live. They are shackled to customs and values and traditions that they had no role in shaping.
Set Up:
Team Australia’s stance is very clear. The dead ought not control the living. You deserve agency over your own life.
One thing in setup, the alternative is this world where people’s moral, social, and spiritual worth are judged on their own merits and by their contemporary communities etc. And unlike what this team tells you, these things are not fleeting. People are still able to find meaning under our side of the house, which is something that they able to opt into rather than being forced upon them, as this team says.
Rebuttals:
Two pieces of extraneous rebuttals before I get into the arguments.
The first thing they tell us is the characterization that values are likely to change over time. And I want to observe it’s quite bad when team India tries to dodge their burden at first because it explicitly says as the definition of this Seriti thing that you have to live in line with the values of your ancestors. But secondly, presumably, that this knifes their own stuff, because presumably if values change over time and people become more individualistic they obviously lose their benefits on community.
Secondly they tell us, ah, but you become more community-oriented under their side. Yeah people still love their families. They still have friends and communities they are able to opt into. This team never proved to you why this is something, a tipping point, that accesses more community.
Two arguments in the speech. First, why this is incredibly bad for individuals. Secondly, why this inhibits social progress.
Argument 1:
In the first argument, there are three parts;
The first is why this team significantly limits agency and why that is a principal harm. Secondly, on why this team causes extreme anxiety and unhappiness for the vast majority of people in the world. Finally, I’ll illustrate a series of practical bad outcomes that this team causes.
The first part of this argument will simply prove why this team significantly diminishes people’s agency and why this is a massive constraint and imposition on your life.
It’s because this thing is something that is embedded within your culture. This motion says, strongly believe in this sort of thing, and cultures often times self-perpetuate.
But secondly, often times this is something that is applied at a young age and so you’re likely to internalize this for the rest of your life and you cannot opt out.
The final thing is people’s moral and social standing is incredibly important for people. People crave social worth because it is within our biology. So this is a powerful compulsion on people’s lives.
The implication of all this is very simple. This philosophy massively limits people’s choices to only what their ancestors expect of them and only what their ancestors ultimately value. Why is this incredibly bad?
The first, that this is something which is just principally wrong. The analogy I want to draw here is that, religious coercion is viewed as wrong. Forcing people to do something or not do something based on the threat of heaven and hell is something which significantly limits people’s choice. A similar thing is applied here when you’re literally challenging like people’s social and self moral worth.
But secondly, only you know your own preferences. Only you know yourself best and you inherit the consequences of your own actions. Which means that you ought to try to live your life according to what you believe in and not what your ancestors believed and whatever values they try to impose upon you.
But secondly, observe that the ability to choose your own values shapes who you fundamentally are as a human. This team robs people of the chance to shape their own identity to pick and choose the values that they ultimately believe in and that diminishes your personhood and your humanity.
But secondly, observe that this just results in deep amounts of unhappiness. You feel suffocated and trapped by what your ancestors believe, by the values that they uphold. And that’s quite bad.
POI: In such a capitalistic society where one’s success measures their worth, how do you think people judge merit in the status quo?
But people still live under capitalism under your side, right? Like your entire case is: But we get more community. But why does having your ancestors bestow upon you a social and moral word is something that creates more community is incredibly unclear to me.
There are three reasons why this causes an extreme amount of anxiety for a lot of people.
The first is that, often times the desires of yourself and the desires of your ancestors often conflict. That’s for the reason that often times people have hidden taboo desires that they ultimately have. Or secondly, you’re just influenced by contemporary influences that also shape your desires and shape what you want. And this is incredibly bad when people feel like their social and moral and standing is dependent on what their ancestors believe and they are conflicting against that. Often times that does result in a lot of guilt and anxiety for a lot of people. It probably looks like if you’re attracted to someone but your ancestors like value things such as puritanism, obviously you’re going to feel incredibly bad and guilty about yourself. If your ancestors value things such as like being frugal or donating a lot, if you want material possessions, obviously that conflicts, obviously that makes you feel incredibly incredibly awful.
But secondly, there is uncertainty in applying values to modern life because the life of your ancestor looks very different from the contemporary life that you are existing in. These are very different experiences that you are living. Trying to apply those lessons across is something which is incredibly hard, is incredibly stressful.
But thirdly, people often times try to live up to their ancestors and they fail. And that’s for the reason that ancestors on their side are glorified. They are lionized. All of their like imperfections are ones that are wiped clean. And so you were never able to live up to the standards that your ancestors put on you and that causes a lot of stress and anxiety. It makes people feel like they are inadequate all the time.
The impacting of the end of this is very simple. This is about a different world. This team subjects billions upon billions of people to feel shame and awful and inadequate or they’re unable to live up to this standard.
The third argument will simply prove why this is practically bad for people.
The first mechanism is that values passed down are simply bad or at least internalized badly by people who have to internalize them. The first thing is that the values of your ancestors oftentimes are incredibly outdated, they oftentimes are incredibly regressive. Even a generation or two generations ago, people were incredibly sexist, they were homophobic and they were racist. And so they’re likely to perpetuate those things across generations or at least the person who is like younger, and the child has to internalize this because their moral and social worth depends on this and it’s incredibly bad for you if you are a queer individual and your desire conflicts to those of your parents. But secondly, observe that even good values that this team talks about often times are presented without nuance. Often times these things are glorified. Obviously the most extreme versions of these things are often times presented to a lot of people. And that is incredibly bad because extreme values, extreme versions of even good values, are often times incredibly harmful. Extreme forgiveness is often times bad especially for women who want to leave relationships which may ultimately be bad for them.
The first thing is that the values of your ancestors oftentimes are incredibly outdated, they oftentimes are incredibly regressive. Even a generation or two generations ago, people were incredibly sexist, they were homophobic and they were racist. And so they’re likely to perpetuate those things across generations or at least the person who is like younger, and the child has to internalize this because their moral and social worth depends on this and it’s incredibly bad for you if you are a queer individual and your desire conflicts to those of your parents.
But secondly, observe that even good values that this team talks about often times are presented without nuance. Often times these things are glorified. Obviously the most extreme versions of these things are often times presented to a lot of people. And that is incredibly bad because extreme values, extreme versions of even good values, are often times incredibly harmful. Extreme forgiveness is often times bad especially for women who want to leave relationships which may ultimately be bad for them.
But the other reason why this is just practically bad for people is that it gives parents and grandparents disproportional control over your life because even if you have a bad relationship with them, even if they mistreated you because you were gay or queer or whatever or did not conform to their standards, you cannot escape and distance and cut ties with them for the reason that your social standing and moral worth with other people diminish to the extent that you’re not seen as following what your parents wanted.
The impacting of this is incredibly simple. Team India screws over the most vulnerable people. People who are queer or women, who do not conform to societal standards ─ these people suffer the most. Either they are coerced into making choices which are not good for them but are imposed upon them. Things such as not entering into a queer relationship because that is something that your parents frowned on. These things are ultimately very unfulfilling and very bad for a lot of people.
Argument 2:
The second argument will simply prove why this is incredibly bad for social progress.
The reason is that people are far less likely to support progress or even having social movements form in the first place because social movements by nature emerge as a reaction to the regressive customs that this team is forced to glorify. It’s much harder to change people’s minds if they fear that they are going astray from what their ancestors wanted. People are far less likely to opt into social movements if they feel like they are disobeying the values of their ancestors and so they fear a lot more.
But secondly, people just don’t express their dissatisfaction with the status quo because that feels like expressing dissatisfaction with the values that their ancestors placed upon them. The impacting of this is incredibly, incredibly simple.
One, there are simply far less resources, far less mobilization that social movements are able to tap into because people are afraid to join them because it feels like conflicting with the values that the ancestors put upon them. Things such as like not supporting gay people because you consider yourself to be like, I don’t know, a traditional family, etc. People are far less likely to donate and join, etc.
But secondly, even if this team tries to symmetrize these things by saying, conservative value still exists on the outside. Comparatively, it is comparative, it is just better under our side if we’re able to achieve social change a couple of decades earlier. It means billions of people access better lives, access more fulfilling existences. I’m very proud to oppose
