SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-indonesia-wsdc-2017-grand-final-england-vs-singapore-this-house-supports-restrictions-on-free-speech-to-comb.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Indonesia WSDC 2017 Grand Final (England vs Singapore) – This House Supports restrictions on free speech to combat the rise of right-wing populism.
URL: https://debating404.com/full-indonesia-wsdc-2017-grand-final-england-vs-singapore/
SPEECH_LABEL: First, who are the victims?
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
We say from the beginning of this debate that minorities are victims but so are those who have been left behind in the dust of unfettered capitalism, so are those who have been sidelined by the political elite that see them as irrational bigots that ought not to be listened to. These are people that currently don’t even have a political party to cater to their class discrimination. These are people who don’t have the courts to defend their supposed constitutional rights because they are seen as stubborn people that cannot engage in discourse, as they say on their side of the house — these are victims that live in fear because they are caricatured by the liberal elite as immoral, deplorable bigots. The label is someone who’s stubborn, irrational, uneducated by Team Proposition, by their own leaders within these countries. That’s the atmosphere that they currently live in, and they are victims that we need to protect in this debate.
We thought they were important in this debate. We had absolutely no response as to why they protect them as well.
They tell us populists can still run for office, but they just won’t let them campaign or talk about what they want to do in office. That’s honestly nonsensical.
So how do their rights compare to the rights of minorities? Now, we understand that minorities are important in this debate. But we do think that minorities have access to a lot more protection than this specific group of individuals who have been cast away by unfettered capitalism and globalization. Why is this the case?
One. Because minorities can be empowered if they respond intonation, not fear. We told you how the domino effect on social media means that you generally have the capacity to feel strong and safe within your communities. Is this perfect? No. But we think, on the comparative, it’s a lot more likely that you have an entire Democratic Party willing to defend you. You’re much better off on your side of the house.
Second of all: The hurt is asymmetric. Many of these individuals have been equally slandered and threatened on the streets by the liberal elite coming from your side of the house. If this is a response out of fear, then I think that’s something legitimate as well.
So, the important point we’ve mentioned is that current minorities already have a Democratic Party to defend them, have access to many other forms of protection. Are they perfect? Absolutely not. But for these individuals, who have currently been sidelined by the entire political elite, this is the only way they can have their voices heard. That is the comparative we’re willing to defend.
Eventually, they shrunk that case because the first said “speech was really bad”. But they say: “Oh no, no, no, no its only speech that results in hate crime.”
Here’s the problem: we say from the beginning of this debate, they were happy to prosecute the physical crime of hurt in itself. The problem with that case is that you’re never able to prove structural reasons why all forms of right-wing populist speech will always and necessarily result in hate crimes coming from their side of the house. There might be a certain correlation, but no definite causation coming from their side of the house. So yes, we agree — this debate is about a balance of rights. There are boundaries to what is acceptable in democracy. But this is the boundary we need to set. For too long, we’ve remained in the neo liberal consensus, and we ought to expand the boundary of appearance that these people have access to.
POI: Why, when we stop people from running on a populist platform, will they not choose to appeal to these forgotten individuals on a purely right-leaning platform?
Answer: Note, because the only way you can truly and genuinely represent these people’s beliefs is to use the same populist rhetorics that actually represent how disgusted they are about the current rate of globalization and unfettered capitalism.
Clash 2: What opinions are valid?
They say that the current system of right-wing populism has a disparate coalition, but the same speech has economic dislocation, which binds them all together.
Here’s the thing: no one is saying we’re only going to have a single policy. Many of these politicians can practice being right-wing populist politicians and craft better policies in the long term. But the important point here is that if so many people are affected by economic dislocation regardless of what they eventually get the policy, I think it is important for these voices are at least heard in parliament through these politicians to begin with.
Furthermore, we say that racist speech is still valuable in a democracy.
Firstly, because not everyone has access to the same education you had. Most of us in this room, probably at a debate speech, once said something insensitive when we talked about women’s rights or minorities. We were fortunate enough to have a debate coach tell us that it was wrong and to never say that again. Unfortunately, for many living in the Rust Belt did not have access to that kind of education. We think it’s wrong for you to punish people for their vocabulary and tone.
But secondly, it is an important signalling effect. We think that saying “We should have a massive overhaul of immigration systems” compared to “All immigrants, get out now” are two very different opinions. Because the latter shows how much disgust and how much intensity you believe in those opinions and that quality is important for us to present as well. That’s why when they wanted to have a substantive about the sanctity of institutions. I think it’s good that we critique institutions when these institutions are dominated by elites, we ought to criticize them as well.
But here’s the fundamental problem with their case — they assume that these beliefs are superimposed by politicians and that otherwise people wouldn’t have had these ideas. This is incredibly false. Those racist beliefs that they talked about are understandable aspects of human nature. They’re in response to economic hardship. People see this all around them. Let’s not kid ourselves and pretend like the Philippines isn’t dominated by a significant number of Chinese businessmen, right? Let’s not pretend there’s no genuine relationship between migrant inflows and wage decrease for these individuals. These are things that politicians tell you. These are things that people observe in their daily lives and make connections for themselves.
So, at the point in which their only policy is to remove politicians parroting these ideas — they don’t actually solve the root cause of these problem. In contrast, they force people into WhatsApp groups, into Facebook groups, into the same echo chambers that they think are so harmful without the same defamation lawsuits that they think have used to regulate these opinions. That is why, when they were never able to engage with the analysis of ordinary Americans, ordinary people on the ground and what their policy would do to them, their side lost this debate. Because they never presented us a meaningful solution and mechanism for the problems they’ve identified.
Clash 3: Why all opinions are under threat on their side?
Lastly, why all opinions are under threat? The only response you get to this is, “But you still have defamation lawsuits, so that’s really bad.”
Here’s the thing, obviously defamation lawsuits are a lot more restricted within status quo, the kind of criteria are lot more stricter compared to five words or five ideas you give us or the generic idea of right-wing populism. And furthermore, it’s not even a criminal case which your policy does.
The important thing you take away from this is that necessarily, all of this is subjective and context specific. Jeremy Corbyn might very well say that immigrant inflow might reduce labour status for every single person. She in fact, did say that but is she a right-wing populist? No. This reveals to you how many of the statements they are made are context-specific, requires you to know what’s going to happen. There was no response, therefore, to all our analysis about prosecutorial discretion, how the Attorney General can make decisions of which political dissidents to take out. This is a very dangerous power for us to give governments to begin with.
Closing
For all of these reasons — it’s our side that understands these people are victims who need to be protected. Silence is oppression.
