SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-panama-wsdc-2025-grand-final-india-vs-australia-th-prefers-a-world-with-a-strong-belief-in-seriti.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Panama WSDC 2025 Grand Final (India vs Australia) – TH prefers a world with a strong belief in Seriti
URL: https://debating404.com/full-debate-panama-wsdc-2025-grand-final-india-vs-australia-th-prefers-a-world-with-a-strong-belief-in-seriti/
SPEECH_LABEL: Proposition 1st Speaker: Veda Kalra
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
Opening:
When you die, your life flashes before you for seven minutes. In these minutes, Team India does not want you to think of how many figures were on your paycheck, or how many friends came to visit you in the hospital, or what your speaker rank at WSDC was. What we want you to remember is your community. That you lived a life of models, a life that generations before you would be proud of and a life that leaves behind a remnant of the values you cared about.
Set up:
What is our stance in this debate? We prefer a world where there’s a strong belief in Seriti and we ask you, panel, to broaden your minds because this is a different world. We think Seriti looks like having a unique form of respect and appreciation for your ancestors, the generations before you. And this is important because Seriti is not about what your grandfather wanted from you. It’s about the generations before, the values they upheld. It looks like if your ancestors prioritized honesty, that’s the one value you wish to carry on to your children.
That if your ancestors valued community, you wouldn’t move out, that you’d stay within the joint family and maintain relationships with your relatives, for example. How then is this conceptualized on our side of the house? We think it’s largely via memory. So the stories your grandparents have told you, the ones that you then tell on to your grandchildren. And that is why, because these are values, they tend to adapt with context as these generations move forward. The community back then could have meant like marrying someone within your own community. But now it’s different. It looks like for example, not moving out as early. But secondly because these are values they tend to be more vague, they’re not as specific. This is not about the job that you’re choosing but rather they have to apply to all generations. And that means it’s about values such as honesty, kindness, community, to take care of your elderly. Overall then, the choices you make on our side are guided by your ancestors so that you feel validated when you stick to their vision, that you honor their wishes, that you respect them even when they’re gone.
So the stories your grandparents have told you, the ones that you then tell on to your grandchildren. And that is why, because these are values, they tend to adapt with context as these generations move forward. The community back then could have meant like marrying someone within your own community. But now it’s different. It looks like for example, not moving out as early.
But secondly because these are values they tend to be more vague, they’re not as specific. This is not about the job that you’re choosing but rather they have to apply to all generations. And that means it’s about values such as honesty, kindness, community, to take care of your elderly.
Overall then, the choices you make on our side are guided by your ancestors so that you feel validated when you stick to their vision, that you honor their wishes, that you respect them even when they’re gone.
And I want to note this debate is about where you derive your spiritual, moral and social standing from. We prefer Seriti. Team Australia then has to defend the status quo, where it is capitalism that tells you how much money you have, or your appearance, or your race and other fleeting ideas is where you’re primarily taking away your social standing from.
That being said, two arguments from team India in the speech. First on why Seriti rewards people a unique source of meaning. Second on why we’re able to revive communal values and support systems on our side of the house.
Argument 1:
First argument then on why Seriti rewards people a unique source of meaning. There are two parts to this argument; The first is that Seriti ensures meaning for current generations. Second we’ll show you why Seriti gives the elderly meaning in the last few years.
Firstly then let’s talk about the current generations. We think that current sources of social standing are fleeting and external. It looks like your source of validation to the money you earn, the job that you’re at, the number of friends around you, and what they tell you to begin with.
Why is this uniquely harmful? Three structural reasons for this:
The first is that a lot of this is completely out of one’s control. That is to say, the reason you’re succeeding at your job interview is something that is arbitrary. The friends you have or the money you have is often shaped by conditions that are just out of your control, where you were born, for example, the kind of family you grew up in.
But second, a lot of these forms of standing are unattainable. There will always be someone who is richer than you. Always someone who is more popular, who is more successful. And in most instances, you can’t strive to reach the top when it comes to these other forms of social standing.
But third, is that these are fleeting. That is to say, you can never continue to be liked for long periods of time. You will not always be successful. There are highs and lows in life and that is something that is natural.
On the comparative then, why is Seriti a far more meaningful way of assessing social standing on our side of the house? Two reasons for this:
The first thing is that it’s far more personal to you. That is to say, this is your family, your culture, and so you feel far more in line with it. That your great grandmother really cared towards animals, towards her community. And that means when you’re donating to an animal welfare charity, you feel in line with it. You feel as if you have purpose.
But second, you can control these kinds of narratives. And I want to note, there is no one telling you on our side that you aren’t perfectly in line with your Seriti. That is to say, you determine it yourself; the way in which you’re sticking to your ancestors’ values and that means you have the leeway to decide what it looks like. So the way you’re finding your social standing or morality is something you’re able to control far more on our side when it’s something you can determine on your own.
And I want to weigh this: this is you feeling far more reassured that you’re not just a speck in the 8 billion people that are living out there. That when your grandfather told you to be confident, I am confidently speaking on the stage today. And that’s something I feel purpose with, value associated with, as opposed to something that is so fleeting on their side.
But the second part of this argument deals with how Seriti is uniquely meaningful towards the elderly. That is to say, Seriti gives the elderly a chance to leave behind a part of themselves i.e. a legacy. And this is important because death is unfair, it happens so suddenly, it happens so unfairly. When your mother passes away at 60, you wish you could be clinging on to her more. On our side then, we give you the ability to care about your values, to ensure that you’re leaving something for generations to follow behind. The fact that the things you care about is something that the grandchildren in front of you are going to be following at the same time is something that’s going to last for so much longer. There is no other way of controlling the image you leave behind when you’re gone, Seriti uniquely gives you the ability to do it on our side.
POI: Your social standing is determined by what your ancestors did which you cannot control. Is that good?
We think that the ancestors, this is not about what your ancestors did, but rather what your ancestors believed in. So things like community, honesty, support systems on our side the house and that means you can interpret it in the ways you want. So if your ancestors was very big on honesty or like caring about community that’s something you interpret on our side. You carry on with a legacy, you move forward.
It’s not like if your grandfather or like your great-grandfather had one specific job you have to do that on our side. This is not what this debate is about.
Argument 2:
Second argument then on why we’re able to revive communal values and support systems far better on our side.
What do we think the values pushed down actually look like? And we would posit that these are far more community oriented. And that is because with our ancestors there were far more closed and tight-knit communities. They had cultural ties, festivals. These were things they prioritized on either side of the house because that is how our ancestors lived in the past. Over time however, we would posit that we have gotten far more individualistic and that is for two reasons.
The first is due to the pressures of competition and capitalism. That you have to work more and more, that you have to strive to get that promotion, that that’s the thing that decides your worth.
But second is due to increased urbanization. That is to say, people flocking to these cities for work, leading to nuclear families that sever these familiar ties.
It is only then, with a strong belief in Seriti that changes this, that makes people far more community oriented. And the impact of this is twofold.
The first thing is that you care far more for the living elderly. This looks like not sending them to old age homes, spending time with them when you’re taking off work to ensure you can spend time with them during their last few years and that it doesn’t have to feel like a checklist on a to-do list to spend time with them, that you genuinely enjoy doing them, that you want to learn about the stories they had, the kind of life they had before you.
But the second thing is that you extend far more support towards your family and that is incredibly important, because in the status quo we lack a lot of support systems, our friends are constantly changing. Because there’s so much competition, people prioritize their own selves. Families have slowly started to get diluted. It is uniquely Seriti that brings this back, that brings your culture back. That looks like women for example when they’re dealing with their children, other relatives stepping in. Support systems becoming far more important. These are people you can rely on, people you can trust on our side of the house because Seriti ensures that you want to live by these values of community that your ancestors set out for you.
Weighing & Closing:
And I want to weigh this argument. The reason we are here today is because of our ancestors. The land we live on was once farmed by our ancestors. These were the families that were formed. Our parents, the ones who took care of us throughout our lives, put in life savings. We then owe a reciprocal obligation to abide by these values to support these parents and generations ahead. For all these reasons, we’re incredibly proud to propose on team India.
