SOURCE_FILE: full-debate-panama-wsdc-2025-grand-final-india-vs-australia-th-prefers-a-world-with-a-strong-belief-in-seriti.txt
TITLE: Full Debate Panama WSDC 2025 Grand Final (India vs Australia) – TH prefers a world with a strong belief in Seriti
URL: https://debating404.com/full-debate-panama-wsdc-2025-grand-final-india-vs-australia-th-prefers-a-world-with-a-strong-belief-in-seriti/
SPEECH_LABEL: Proposition 3rd Speaker: Uday Vir Khosla
SPEECH_NUMBER: third
Opening:
I think team Australia might benefit from a closer read at the motion because according to the info slide, this is about your social standing and how you view yourself in relation to society. So at the end of the day, it was not enough for second opposition to talk about clubs. It was not enough for them to come up and give flippant responses about the art you view. At the core of it, it was that you assessed your worth and you judged how valuable of a person you were, on the basis of how much money you earned, on the basis of how good you looked, on the basis of how many friends you can form. Crucially, second opposition can tell you all they want about other sources of meaning, but they don’t engage with the core of the case from team India and it loses them the round.
There are three things I want to talk about in the speech. First, what are the kinds of values that are passed down by Seriti? Second, which side provides better meaning and improves the self-worth of individuals? And thirdly, and finally on social change.
Clash 1:
First, let’s talk about the kinds of values that are passed down via Seriti because I think more broadly this characterization clash makes or breaks the debate for either side of the house. Opposition’s case down the bench is that Seriti means that ancestors will guide your every single choice, literally every moment of your life. But this simply wasn’t realistic and we gave you reasons down the bench.
The first is that ancestors would clearly know that context would change. They would not be aware of the kind of life you would be leading or their great grandchildren would be leading or what the world would be look like, and so the values would be broad-based, which means they’re not specific guides about specific situations, but rather instructions like honesty, instructions like kindness, which were generally important for people to follow.
But secondly and crucially, these are things that are shaped by memory. Which is to say, when I remember my grandfather, I remember his one [inaudible] kindness. I may not remember his specifics on everything, but the one thing that sticks, the one story that keeps getting told again and again is about specific value. This has two implications. First, that these are in fact actually broad-based. But second, that the interpretation of these values is uniquely personal. That’s to say that you get to decide whether you’re in line with these values or not. No one else knows your thoughts. No one else can control your daily actions on a day-to-day basis. It is only you that can interpret these values because you have the most approximate understanding of it. That’s why unlike what second opposition would want you to believe, it is very different from religion where there’s a religious leader and a religious text giving you a strict doctrine to follow. These are broad-based guidelines we want people to personally interpret and live their lives through. The final attack they levy on this is well oh you know values are broad-based and conflicting, it cuts through our benefit. But this doesn’t actually engage with the nuance of the case that we gave you, which is to say, it’s not to say that the values are conflicting rather that individuals have flexibility in how they apply them but they still follow the broad guidelines as a whole.
First, that these are in fact actually broad-based. But second, that the interpretation of these values is uniquely personal. That’s to say that you get to decide whether you’re in line with these values or not. No one else knows your thoughts. No one else can control your daily actions on a day-to-day basis. It is only you that can interpret these values because you have the most approximate understanding of it. That’s why unlike what second opposition would want you to believe, it is very different from religion where there’s a religious leader and a religious text giving you a strict doctrine to follow. These are broad-based guidelines we want people to personally interpret and live their lives through.
The final attack they levy on this is well oh you know values are broad-based and conflicting, it cuts through our benefit. But this doesn’t actually engage with the nuance of the case that we gave you, which is to say, it’s not to say that the values are conflicting rather that individuals have flexibility in how they apply them but they still follow the broad guidelines as a whole.
The implication of all of this analysis is clear. The clash they give you on choice is not really relevant in the round because we actually think that people still do have significant degrees of flexibility as long as they stay within the broad guidelines of these values.
But second, we actually think that people find significant meaning in listening. You have to remember panel that this is a radically different world, where people have always believed in these values from the first place. That’s why they actually do find value in listening to what their ancestors believe. Opposition would want you to think it is people today being told tomorrow that they have to listen to everything their ancestors said. No, in that sense, we would say it’s true many religious people do find so much order and value in the structure. That’s why people voluntarily choose to wear hijabs. That’s why people voluntarily choose to follow strict religious practices even if it might come as a personal inconvenience to them. They find meaning in it. They find salvation in that. They view their own self-worth as an extension of that.
And I think it is frankly demeaning for second opposition to dismiss that as nonsense. Before I move on to the clash about meaning, I’ll take the point.
POI: Yeah. So you can’t pick and choose. There are values that are broad-based that are both good and bad. You had to explain why good values don’t exist under our side, but bad values do to make your case exclusive. Okay. One, we think that individuals want to leave a really good legacy behind. They don’t want to be remembered as someone who proliferated hatred, who proliferated violence. So that’s why values like love your neighbor, be kind to everyone and the kinds of things they promote as a part of this philosophy. But second, it’s just true that without this being moral is incredibly difficult. It is so difficult to make the moral choice in every instance. It’s often easy to choose convenience. We want people to have that force that reinforces them to make the right choice in more instances.
Clash 2:
Second, let’s talk about meaning because we were clear. Your meaning is tied to your self-worth. And in status quo, self-worth is fleeting. There’s a crisis where people do not know what their impact on the world is. They do not know amongst the 8 billion people on this planet where they will ever leave a change behind. What were the responses we heard to this idea down the bench?
The first thing we hear at first opposition is well you know capitalism still exists. Obviously this doesn’t engage with the broad parts of our case which is suggested that maybe you’re in a capitalist society but you don’t derive your meaning from how much money you earned. You derive it from how you’re living in line with the values of your ancestors.
The second thing, and these are just a list of responses from second opposition that are just lies. You don’t actually need money or privilege to be reassured in your self-worth at all. Blatantly untrue. The vast majority of people feel incredibly bad about the fact that they look around and see people that have nicer things than them, live nicer lives than them.
Second, they tell you that, people actually don’t care about reaching the top because, you know, poor people just don’t have dreams and aspirations that they never want to make it high up the ladder. I think these responses are incredibly unrealistic and devoid of any relation with reality.
The final thing they say is, well, oh, you know, people will still spend time with their relatives. Of course, again, this is yet another assertion from second opposition. Incredibly flippant responses given we’ve proven to you down the bench that people don’t have the time and in the kind of society we live today, they’re forced to make trade-offs that come at the expense of their family, at the expense of their community.
But let’s take them at their best. Let’s say that maybe people do ascribe some level of meaning on their side of the house. The unique difference is this is a meaning that gives people a broader purpose. That’s to say that you’re living the life of your ancestors, you’re leaving a real legacy behind. Any of the meaning they do get is fleeting, any of the meaning they do get depends on your context for where you are. This is one thing that universally persists for all individuals. So just on scale, given it impacts everybody in the world, and also the extent to which it gives them satisfaction and fulfillment, this is independently the round-winning issue.
Clash 3:
Finally, let’s talk about social change because the main push we get is, ah well these values are very regressive and they’re going to cause large degrees of discrimination.
But we actually flipped this at second proposition to no response. Which is to say that many of these values do oppose discrimination. That values like love and kindness are easy justification to take stance for feminism. Values like pursuing what you believe in, working hard, the pursuit of excellence are all things that are likely to be passed down and we have no reason to suggest that the specific conservative practices, which we’ve already proved to you are unlikely the ones carried down, undermine that.
What then are the responses we heard to this idea? The first thing we heard is, ah well a lot of these good ideas will come up anyways. I don’t think this engages with the majority of our case, which is to say that it’s very difficult to make good decisions in most instances.
Weighing:
At the end of the speech I just want to weigh these two issues, which is to say that a lot of the discrimination they talk about happens anyways. Until the past 50 years, we did live in an incredibly conservative and regressive society across the world. It is only now that we’ve seen trends of liberalization increasing. There are still other factors like religion. There are still other reasons to discriminate, like feeling like you have a feeling of superiority that still exist on their side of the house that they don’t do much to solve to begin with. So it is unclear how much discrimination or how much targeting might actually increase. But what is clear and certain benefit that you should vote on is the idea that people are finally able to find a sense of meaning, that they finally feel like they have a purpose in their life. That’s something that team India wants to protect and it loses team Australia the round.
