SOURCE_FILE: macau-online-wsdc-2021-semi-final-canada-vs-singapore-thw-nationalise-the-research-development-and-distribution-of-pharm.txt
TITLE: Macau Online WSDC 2021 Semi-Final (Canada vs Singapore) – THW nationalise the research, development, and distribution of pharmaceuticals
URL: https://debating404.com/macau-online-wsdc-2021-semi-final-canada-vs-singapore-thw-nationalise-the-research-development-and-distribution-of-pharmaceuticals/
SPEECH_LABEL: Proposition 3rd Speaker: Matthew Anzarouth
SPEECH_NUMBER: third
Opening
It was recently revealed through leaked internal reports that McKinsey advised Purdue Pharma to adjust their advertisement to “counter the emotional messaging” of parents who had lost their children to addiction. It was also revealed that since the early 2000s, Purdue Pharma was well aware of the human costs of the addictiveness of oxycontin; hundreds of thousands of people died in the 15 years that followed. EpiPens in the United States and many countries around the world are prohibitively expensive to the point where people with anaphylaxis allergies, like myself, often do not buy those EpiPens in the very first place.
We gave you a host of benefits, still unengaged with, about why economic markets have no incentive to cater to the poor, while democratic markets do because they have more political capital. We give you a host of reasons why governments can’t get away with crippling misinformation that claims hundreds of thousands of lives, and Opposition’s response is a magic bullet 30-second counter prop with regulation. Unfortunately, that’s not going to cut it.
I’m going to talk about two things: firstly, accessibility; and then, innovation.
Rebuttal
I just want to first engage their third argument on innovation. They say other companies are now going to be afraid to innovate. Firstly, there’s a really weird slippery slope argument. It’s completely unclear why this is going to create such a significant chilling effect, especially given that these are vastly different markets and industries. It’s unclear why the government acting in one way in one industry translates into a fear the government will act in the exact same way in other industries.
But second, all our arguments suggest that nationalisation is a good thing. If this leads to universal national health care, we think that’s a good thing as well. So this argument ultimately is circular in the sense that it folds into the question of whether governments are better than private companies in other industries as well. This is a non-argument; it’s a contingent argument.
Clash 1: Accessibility
So first, on inaccessibility. Even if you believe that innovation is a relative wash, which it very very clearly is not by virtue of their failure to respond to the host of analyses we gave you, we won on accessibility.
We told you a variety of things. One, these are natural oligopolies with large players because there are high costs of speculative R&D, which only a few players in the market can be welcomed into. It’s not worth it for more players to come in if they can’t capture a significant enough portion of the market in order to justify those speculative costs. You need to wait for FDA approval, you should hire scientists, you’d have to do a bunch of speculative research. We told you these are inelastic goods where price gouging is possible. We told you there’s a segmentation of the market through the fear of patent violations so you’re not even researching or competing on the same thing.
Their response is regulation. I have three or four responses to regulation. Number one, we told you that if they don’t eliminate all established players from the market at once as we are doing on our side, there still remain entrenched companies with lobbying power. This means even if you implement regulations, there are still players who have an active incentive to roll back those regulations over time. See, for instance, the way in which Johnson & Johnson lobbies hundreds of millions to both Democrats and Republicans. Their regulations are not long-lasting.
The response in Second Opposition is, “If this is true, you’re just going to get re-privatization on proposition.” This is a ridiculous argument. Wealthy billionaires are no longer invested in the preservation of the pharma industry on our side of the house because they’ve transferred their wealth into other industries at the point where it’s been nationalised. So there’s no active incentive to peel back our policy, while there’s an active incentive to peel back theirs.
Thirdly, you can’t regulate the oligopoly in the way First Opposition says through antitrust. As Second Opposition concedes in their argument, the only reason you actually have an incentive to engage in this market is if there are high returns, given just how speculative and uncertain this research and development is. So if you regulate against oligopolies and create more competitive markets, you have no markets whatsoever. There are no players who have an incentive to actually enter the pharmaceutical industry because the profits aren’t high enough.
Fourthly, if governments on their side can subsidise the production of unprofitable drugs as per the third point of their counterprop, then our government can produce them as well as for the symmetric political capital that exists in this debate. Therefore, if their counter model is acceptable, innovation might wash in some respect — although I don’t think it does — in which case there are three remaining deadlock breakers, three reasons to vote for the proposition.
Number one, it’s unclear whether their side will be sufficient in their subsidies to create a monetary incentive to produce these drugs. Crucially, you don’t just need to make it affordable to produce these drugs, you have to make it worth the opportunity cost of all the other drugs these pharmaceutical companies could possibly be producing.
Number two, because we win on pricing. Clearly, cross-subsidization within a government that has huge pools of taxes is far larger than cross-subsidization within a company, especially if you believe that there are many different companies, which suggests they’re splitting the profits and these companies are relatively smaller, which is a precondition for you to believe any of their benefits on competition. As such, cross-subsidization under government is far bigger. That’s why you can effectively limit prices on our side.
Thirdly, on misinformation. Even if good innovation is symmetric, we prevent the worst forms of misinformation and the worst forms of creating drugs that actively claim lives. The first thing they told you here is that you can sue them, but Purdue Pharma probably knew 20 years ago that at some point it would come back to them. But even with the lawsuit that happened, they came out richer for it for the 15 years of profits they made off the suffering of hundreds of thousands of people. So even if you get regulations, that counter the massive profit incentives that these companies have.
I’ll engage with the analysis on backlash. They say there’s going to be backlash, but consumers don’t dictate what pharmaceutical companies do, even if consumers are angry. Companies have a legal fiduciary obligation to their shareholders, which is a reason why they have an active incentive to do this kind of thing to misinform and cover up information even if there’s going to be public backlash. In contrast, public backlash under a government can literally vote you out and cripple your government. Zero response from the opposition.
Their final argument is you’re not going to sell to other countries. A couple of things I want to point out. Number one, governments can prohibit on either side of the house information sharing across countries due to national security reasons. Vaccine hoarding can happen anyway as it already has. If it’s true that governments hold power over companies in all the good ways that they want them to, presumably it’s also that the government holds power over the companies in all the bad ways that they don’t want them to.
But second, governments actually do have an incentive to share these drugs for diplomatic reasons, for example, to expand influence in Africa, gain more alliances, and for the US to out-compete China and vice versa. Oftentimes, these richer countries will have an over surplus of drugs. At the very least, now other countries in poor states can research those drugs when in the status quo due to the fear of patent violations, an argument that still has gone unengaged with. By contrast, private companies have no incentive to go in unless they make it prohibitively expensive.
POI: On the one hand, you say governments have an incentive to send their drugs overseas. On the other hand, you say, “If there’s a potential risk of a shortage, then you’re going to have massive political backlash and people are going to be voted out.” What are governments going to do and why?
Answer: I literally just preempted this in two ways. One, there often is a surplus of drugs so you can do that anyway. But second, if that’s not true the biggest delta in this debate is now that other countries can research those drugs when in the status quo they can’t do the fear of patent violations. I also washed this out in a third way by explaining why private companies don’t have an incentive to go in so I rebutted this argument on all accounts.
Clash 2: Innovation
Now their argument is that governments are short-termist. This is the second thing they told you. We solve this by publishing transparently where the government is spending their money. So even if, in theory, long-term production would only pay off after an election cycle, people know in the short term that you are neglecting to research critical medicine. This Has huge political ramifications because it’s easy to paint the ruling party as greedy and self-interested while people are dying on their watch. They say but you could just say “the alternative is big pharma, so stop complaining.” That makes no sense. In our world, clearly, there’s a new paradigm where the government is perceived as responsible for this. It’s not going to be true that they’re able to advocate responsibility in that way.
Second, we told you in our second speech that pharmaceuticals are likely to be high on the list of voting issues and priorities in elections, given how dire the situation is and the need for drugs. Importantly, if one party or politician raises the issue in an election of certain drugs and certain medicines being neglected, there is a competitive political atmosphere where every other political party has an incentive to co-opt that messaging. That is why in Canada, you have vials of insulin that are sold at barely above production costs, while in the US it’s at hundreds and hundreds of dollars. This argument got no response; it’s about the race to the top that we get in politics by virtue of wanting to co-opt whatever Bernie Sanders is saying if you are Biden.
Closing
Finally, I just want to point out at the end of this speech that we have a host of arguments that still have not been engaged with: that private markets have no incentive to research drugs that are not profitable. This means no drugs for terminal illnesses that are not recurring customers. It means no drugs that affect poor people like asbestos and mesothelioma.
They never engaged our comparatives here, which are twofold: one, that poor people have lots of political capital because they’re a numerous population but little economic capital, so they can hold the government to account more than they can hold free markets to account. Secondly because of sympathy. In an economic market, the only reason to research for old people is how much money old people have. On our side, you also have to account for how their children and grandchildren are going to vote in elections when they are dying due to the government’s failure. That’s why we get far better accountability, far better innovation, and far better accessibility. On all those grounds, we’re winning this debate.
