SOURCE_FILE: macau-online-wsdc-2021-semi-final-canada-vs-singapore-thw-nationalise-the-research-development-and-distribution-of-pharm.txt
TITLE: Macau Online WSDC 2021 Semi-Final (Canada vs Singapore) – THW nationalise the research, development, and distribution of pharmaceuticals
URL: https://debating404.com/macau-online-wsdc-2021-semi-final-canada-vs-singapore-thw-nationalise-the-research-development-and-distribution-of-pharmaceuticals/
SPEECH_LABEL: Opposition 3rd Speaker: Caleb Loh
SPEECH_NUMBER: third
Opening
There are two reasons why Side Proposition has already lost this debate.
The first problem with the proposition case is that they point to issues with the private sector without telling us why nationalisation necessarily is the way to solve them. If there are issues with cost, we can easily subsidise this. We don’t need to marry ourselves to any model; we can support mean tested subsidies for universal healthcare. We don’t need to say that any one of them is better, but then they simply mitigate the worst of the harms that they talk about.
If they want to tell you about misinformation, we can ban this information. When their side talks to you about oxytocin being advertised to people, we actually ban the advertisement of many of these drugs to people right now. Only two countries actually allow this direct advertisement on both sides of the house. Therefore, most of those issues are not in the debate because the excesses of the private sector can be cut out. Their case is exceptionally US-centric in this regard because they only talk about problems that exist right there when they place their case in that particular context when many other countries have already imposed those regulations.
They cannot simply say that this is an abuse of fear. On their side, they shut down a whole industry. They take away the assets of millions of people and compensate them. If they are able to do that, we can on our side impose a ban on lobbying, get rid of Citizens United and ensure that we’re at least able to impose some of the regulations that we have. Regulations implemented on our side actually take out the majority of their case, and their case falls because all of them have to do with the excesses of the private sector rather than the positive impact of nationalisation.
But secondly, we also won because our second speaker’s argument about how it sets a precedent for nationalisation in other sectors got very weak engagement. They simply say, “Why can’t we just nationalise everything?” This was their only response other than calling it a slippery slope argument. But if their side nationalises everything, then there is simply less innovation, which is what we proved to you in that second speaker’s argument that was not responded to. We’ve proven an even larger impact beyond the pharmaceutical industry that was not responded to.
So for these two reasons we already win. But I’m going to move further. Let’s talk about the two issues in this debate: firstly, the cost of pharmaceuticals; secondly, the volume and diversity that we have.
Clash 1: Cost
Firstly, on cost. They say governments have an incentive to keep the cost low. We agreed. That’s why we have all of the subsidies that we’ve talked to you about since First. Therefore, we already win. But let’s take them at their best. Let’s say we don’t have any of these policies. Let’s say we are really debating only in the United States and the United States only. Why is it that we are still better? This is because, under a monopoly, there is an incentive that that monopoly does not exist in the first place.
There is a hinge on the idea of price gouging or that there’s only one company that is able to control the prices and ensure they’re able to set it for everybody. This is unlikely for three reasons. Firstly, there are many ways to enter the market. For example, if you use food agriculture or technology, oftentimes you can transplant yourself into the pharmaceutical industry. We told you this since First; there was no response. Secondly, we told you drugs were extremely substitutable. For instance, there might be a monopoly over a company producing panadol, but there are other medicines that can help to cure headaches and fever which their site simply does not engage with this. This we told you in a Second there was absolutely no response. Finally, and here’s where I add a new layer, in fact, many medical procedures are not patented which means that you can reverse engineer those things and ensure that you’re able to develop those drugs as well. For these three reasons, it’s highly unlikely that their side’s idea of a huge monopoly able to control prices exists, which means that there is a huge amount of competition to reduce those drug prices.
In fact, we tell you that the costs are much higher in their world because of how developing countries are exceptionally hurt. Now, they can buy from MNCs on our side of the house. Do not let their side get away with saying that we have no comparative on this issue. The comparative on our side is one where MNCs are likely to sell to these poorer countries because of the huge number of people there who don’t have access to those drugs. Being able to capture that particular market means that you have a first mover advantage, particularly because MNCs often produce their facilities in those countries. For example, many of Pfizer’s production facilities are in India, and therefore it’s probably quite cheap to sell it there.
Meanwhile, on their side, the developed world actually has no incentive to sell. What are their responses? “The private sector won’t sell to the developing world.” This is untrue because if you don’t do so, then other companies will. But moreover, they tell us the developed world has an incentive to sell to the developing world because of political alliances. If this were really true, then this is obnoxious because they want diplomatic reasons. They want a huge amount of competition between China and the US to provide those things, which at the end of the day simply means that those countries are beholden to a new Cold War. In between a company and a country being able to control your resources, the latter is far more dangerous. But moreover, developed countries are quite averse to helping the developing poor because it’s seen as unnaturalistic and unpatriotic. We are putting another country’s interests first.
Therefore, at the end of this first clash, I’ve proven that the cost is far higher on their side of the house if not just in the developed country, but in the developing country as well. But let’s take them at their best. Let’s say their side actually has higher costs, and that on our side we do have things like price gouging. This is not the most important issue in this debate. Even if there’s a higher marginal cost of many of these medicines on our side of the house, under their side this comes at a huge cost because there’s a huge opportunity cost of other services where you have to buy over all these companies and attract all of the best scientists. On their side, they have to engage with the idea of worse transport services, worse healthcare services and worse education services, which they have not chosen to do so. So, if we are able to prove to you that on our side we at least have a greater breadth of medicines and a greater number and volume of drugs, then we already win this clash because, on their side, the harms are even worse.
Clash 2: Volume and diversity
This leads me onto my second argument on the idea of the volume of drugs. Notice if we prove this, we win this debate because this is a more important issue than cost alone. We have a greater incentive on our side for companies to build these drugs. This is because companies, in fact, have to attract a larger number of people. It is very unlikely, as they claim, that they will simply overprescribe or produce drugs that create a sense of reliance because you can move to another company rather than eternally rely on that particular one. The problem of the opioid epidemic as our team points out is something that’s very specific to the US rather than any other country because there’s simply a poor regulation of doctors rather than the regulation of those companies.
On the comparative, governments are very unlikely to want to develop because all the things are really long-term. Covid is an anomaly here because there was one year of an extremely urgent need for the vaccine. But in most other diseases, you don’t see the number of short-term funds that are actually needed. Governments are not rewarded for big advances in these particular fields because your research oftentimes has to be kept secret to prevent the private sector from making use of it. Therefore in the government area, there’s actually a last mover’s advantage because whoever is able to be elected at the point at which the drug is being produced is the one that’s able to take away that electoral advantage.
If the entire argument is based on the idea of voters reading these reports and seeing how the drug is being developed over time, then in fact there’s a negative incentive. Governments are likely to spend money on areas to show that they are making this progress without actually making it in any way substantial. Simply saying that they have the best scientists on their side cannot be the silver bullet of their case because oftentimes these scientists are also beholden to the political interests that are being made.
Therefore, on our side, there’s a greater incentive for a huge number of drugs to be made. At least, companies have an incentive to be able to get patents and make profits. Their mechanism of shareholders in fact works for us because these shareholders tend to remain for a long term and ensure that those drugs are produced.
But moreover, on ability. Governments are far worse at being able to develop these drugs because they have so many other competing priorities. Their new evolution in third speakers tells us, “But governments now have the ability to produce this because now they don’t have to compete with patent trolls.” The thing is, many of these governments aren’t able to do this competition because of the scant resources that they already have. Look at Cuba, how it’s trying to develop a Covid vaccine and failing under their model. On the comparative on our side, it is far easier for companies to develop. At the end of the day, many of them have non-medical origins — something we told you since our first speaker that had absolutely no response.
Closing
Therefore, on our side, we have better innovation and better costs. We will not dull the cutting edge. We are proud to oppose.
