SOURCE_FILE: macau-online-wsdc-2021-semi-final-canada-vs-singapore-thw-nationalise-the-research-development-and-distribution-of-pharm.txt
TITLE: Macau Online WSDC 2021 Semi-Final (Canada vs Singapore) – THW nationalise the research, development, and distribution of pharmaceuticals
URL: https://debating404.com/macau-online-wsdc-2021-semi-final-canada-vs-singapore-thw-nationalise-the-research-development-and-distribution-of-pharmaceuticals/
SPEECH_LABEL: Opposition 1st Speaker: Tajei Puthucheary
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
Opening
Team Proposition gives us lots of reasons why certain private markets in the status quo are problematic. They do not prove why nationalisation specifically is the only way to solve all of these problems.
Set-up
How do we solve these problems on Opposition? First, we would not nationalise the research, development, and distribution of pharmaceuticals. Instead, we would use the immense political and financial capital that Proposition consumes to keep the cost of drugs affordable. Governments have a structural incentive to do so because health care is an important voting issue by the concession of First Prop, and voters already support regulation on big pharma companies.
We specifically support three mechanisms:
First, we regulate against monopolistic practices, for instance, price gouging or misleading information from companies about addictive drugs like opioids. They say this is not possible because the company is not profitable, and in the same breath they say companies are already making excess supernormal profits. So even if we keep this price down, companies can still be profitable because the profit they are making in the status quo is excessive.
Second, we will subsidise companies to produce unprofitable drugs, such as treatments for rare diseases or those that afflict the poor. This deals specifically with their second argument because we incentivise companies to do this on our side as well.
Finally, if for whatever reason drug prices continue to remain high, we can apply a toolkit of measures to keep healthcare affordable. This includes means-tested subsidies for consumers or universal healthcare insurance.
We do not have to defend what First Prop calls a comparative of extortion or misinformation. In countries where healthcare is the cheapest, for instance, Norway or Sweden, the model is not one of nationalisation; it is our model of regulation. They have to prove why nationalisation is the only viable medal to achieve their ends.
We have three arguments: first, that Proposition suffocates innovation; second, that Proposition aggravates global inequality; finally, that Proposition sets a dangerous precedent for other life-saving industries. Before that, let’s take a look at the case Proposition presents.
Rebuttals
They first say it is important to have accessible drugs. I’ve given you numerous alternative policies by which we can guarantee this on our side of the house. But even if you don’t believe that, let’s look at the logic of their arguments.
They first say there are high barriers to entry in the big pharma sector. That may be true, but companies can overcome these high barriers to entry by cross-subsidising from other firms. For example, GSK was originally a milk formula company. It overcame the high barriers to entry in big pharma by using the profits from milk formula to enter the pharma industry. Even if high barriers to entry exist, they are not insurmountable.
Second, they say that brand name is a problem. It is very hard to believe that consumers would continue to buy a subpar drug that literally affects their health and lifespan insofar as they brand-name. They have to prove why it is so important.
Next, they say technology sharing is uniquely enabled by governments. It’s not. Many of these big pharma companies already engage in lots of different sectors as there’s an incentive to do so so that you can capitalise on your advantage in one sector in order to gain an advantage in another sector by being the first mover in that industry. So technology sharing also exists on our side.
Finally, they say governments have good incentives because there’s backlash in subpar treatment by governments. That’s not true because governments can deflect blame using the exact rhetoric of the Proposition team. Governments can say this is the only method we can use because any alternative will fall prey to the evils of private industry. This is exactly what the British government does in England, where despite the fact that the NHS has month-long waiting lists for crucial surgery treatments, it avoids public scrutiny because it tells voters that this is the only option and any alternative will be even worse.
Second, they say a diversity of drugs is important. I’ve already proven why this exists on our side of the house as well. Moreover, they don’t show why governments are willing to bear this particular risk. We pointed out in a POI that if you bear this immense risk as an incumbent government, it is highly likely that the credit for that drug will go to your successor government, which is overwhelmingly likely to be from a different party or at least not the same person as you. Therefore, even if it’s true that our world is imperfect, they need to prove why governments will be any better.
Finally, they say misinformation is likely to exist. First, when it comes to things like harmful drugs, obviously you have to pass many stages of government trials like the FDA in the United States. This argument is not relevant. Second, they say consumers are dependent on your drugs. This assumes that companies can say for sure that these consumers will come back to your particular company rather than a similar drug from any other company. Insofar as that cannot be guaranteed companies cannot rely on dependents. Finally, they say the opioid epidemic is something that is unique to these particular companies. I would note that most countries have solved or avoided an opioid epidemic without resorting to this drastic policy of Proposition. They need to prove why nationalisation is the only method to solve this.
So for all of those reasons, the arguments that Proposition gives to us are out.
Argument 1: Development of pharmaceuticals
The premise of this argument is that government-run firms have bad incentives in terms of their production of pharmaceuticals.
First, it’s because of government short-termism. Both sides in this debate agree that there’s high risk and high cost of investing in pharmaceuticals. The problem on their side is that if you are a government, as I mentioned before, the benefit to you from the development of that drug goes to your successor rather than you, whereas on the comparative, companies remain the same. They pass these election cycles, and therefore there’s an incentive to break into these new markets.
Second, on the specific metric of safety that Proposition tells us about, governments are actually a lot more short-termist because often these particular problems with drugs are only found out many years down the road by which time again another government is in power. Therefore, governments have incentives to fast-track the development of drugs, bypassing safety procedures so as to get short-term political benefits. In contrast, companies’ reputations don’t disappear after four years. For instance, GSK still has a bad reputation from the development of thalidomide in the 1960s because that had bad effects on pregnant women. There are therefore stronger incentives for companies to actually maintain higher standards of safety on our side of the house.
Finally, Proposition harms the development of medical technology overall. Many technologies start off non-medical, for example, the mRNA technology used in the COVID-19 vaccine was originally used in agricultural fermentation. The problem is that specific research is needed to develop the medical applications of these technologies. On their side, the moment you engage in that research, all of your technology is now seized by the government as a pharmaceutical. And there is therefore no incentive for holders of patents for these particular intermediary technologies to develop medical applications of their technologies. They will either hide these particular technologies from governments or simply not extend their medical applications. What this means is there is no innovation in terms of medical products on their side of the house. On our side, when we ensure that these individuals can continue to hold on to their patents, we, therefore, ensure there’s a continued incentive to innovate.
And moreover, when it comes to issues of cost which is the main argument that their side brought, we can heavily subsidise these firms. For that reason, the development of medical technology is better on our side.
POI: A private Alzheimer’s drug was just fast-tracked through the FDA by corporate lobbying despite being ineffective. Why should companies be able to operate without public scrutiny?
Answer: We think there are structural incentives for companies not to do that because the blowback against them is far greater than governments as I illustrated.
Argument 2: Global inequality
On their side, every country must develop and produce its own pharmaceutical products. There was shockingly little analysis in the First Proposition speech about countries that are not the United States and don’t have overwhelming first-class medical technology. This is terrible because there’s a huge disparity in terms of capital, skills and technology, meaning that Third World countries will not be able to produce any medical technology where they nationalise and no private actors exist.
Now, why won’t you be able to buy from developed countries on their side of the house? Because there’s a fear of political backlash. Governments of developed countries know that if in the future they lack a particular medical product, there will be a huge backlash against them from voters if they initially chose to sell that medical product to another country. Therefore, the incentive of governments is to hoard all of the medical supplies to themselves and not send them out, particularly because it’s usually unpopular with voters to help these particular developing nations by selling products to them.
The outcome of this, therefore, is that developing countries have no medical technology on their side. On our side, at least they can buy from the private market. Even if the cost is high, it is still better than on their side where there is no access at all.
Closing
For all of these reasons, we will not dull the cutting edge of medical technology. We are proud to oppose
