SOURCE_FILE: pm-bangladesh-uadc-2020-round-6-this-house-regrets-juan-guaid-s-decision-to-boycott-the-venezuelan-elections.txt
TITLE: PM Bangladesh UADC 2020 Round 6 – This House regrets Juan Guaidó’s decision to boycott the Venezuelan elections
URL: https://debating404.com/pm-bangladesh-uadc-2020-round-6/
SPEECH_LABEL: First argument
SPEECH_NUMBER: first
Firstly about why representation is good inherently.
I first want to put a framing in the general context that I think Maduro is unlikely to cover it up to the extent to which is going to be like 99% Maduro, 1% for the opposition party and this is somewhat going to be equitable, we think in our fashion. WHy is this the case? Three mechanisms.
The first is because there’s speculation like doubt that  relation is going to be rigged in the first place (even if regardless dia boycott ato ga, people will question Maduro because he already has an image of a dictator and undemocratic).. That is because there’s been you know, support or like kinds of claims made that the election is going to be rigged. It probably means that Maduro has incentive to prove them wrong to say that this is probably not going to be something that’s incredibly obvious right.
But secondly because Maduro doesn’t want the public to get angry to the extent to which there it is preventable right that is that I think it’s going to be obviously if it’s 99 percent, one percent it’s going to be a severe case that’s going to uplift or kind of you know, it’s going to really anger the public and I think that’s a question of extent because it’s very very clear it’s going to happen. Whereas I think a 70% 30% would not be having that as much done right.
But thirdly because I think, if it looks equitable, it boosts the legitimacy of that redeeming question, this is also a flip side of the argument, which is that I think is unlikely, this is going to change things as much right. Why is representation then?
A good thing inherently, two reasons.
First, because you’re able to delay things and you can reject policies. At the very best in our case, you’re able to reject certain policies that the current government does in order to oppress the event of civilians, under the status quo right. And even if it doesn’t, it was able to significantly delay the implementation of things or policies that are coming up or the initial thinkings or initial thought process upon which those policies are going to be manifesting. And this is particularly important right because we think that the Maduro regime currently, does things to the port, like cutting off the benefits through having hyperinflation by having and giving a good currency political allies and not having that hyperinflation means that they’re able to gain profit off of it which significantly benefits the allies of Maduro, but significantly harm the poor for instance. And I think that they’re able to criticize their government if they have representation for being corrupt which we things does two things:
One, it obstructs policies directly because it’s able to call out its government on the policies
But two, we think it’s able to inform the public as well, which means that they’re unlikely to get support
All of these things are important in order to delay their processes, and that’s why representations inherent good and of itself.
But secondly, because of media coverage right. We think that if you have media coverage, that means that you have confrontation or that it is broadcasted on media level if it is how if you have representation rights. It further increases chances of that harm that is going to occur and we think that’s an incredibly important mechanism to rally or to make these people understand that there is a public conflict or to drive them and try to specify how they should be acting in those areas.
