SOURCE_FILE: pm-bangladesh-uadc-2020-round-6-this-house-regrets-juan-guaid-s-decision-to-boycott-the-venezuelan-elections.txt
TITLE: PM Bangladesh UADC 2020 Round 6 – This House regrets Juan Guaidó’s decision to boycott the Venezuelan elections
URL: https://debating404.com/pm-bangladesh-uadc-2020-round-6/
SPEECH_LABEL: Third argument
SPEECH_NUMBER: third
How do you know if the election is rigged empirically though. But I think you know that an election is rigged because you participated in that event right. That is because the ways upon which you’re able to assess whether religion is rigged through exit polls and based on statistics to reveal it was rigged in the first place right. You can only confirm it afterwards if it’s like the result different from the people who voted for you, like if you have other parties or third parties intervening and to know that those things happened right. And that is the proof that you require to be able to legitimately take action, and to comfort that this was something that was rigged right. And we think that this is incredibly important for two reasons.
The first is because you were able to undermine Maduro in the first place right. That means that Maduro is probably found to have rigged the election, then obviously that justified a lot of social riots or the protestors on the streets that are currently happening right. Anything that at least gives Maduro incentive to pander to the poor or at least expand to try and consolidate those people as well to lessen the amount of harm that he’s doing, and we think it’s far likely that this is going to happen in so far as there’s active proof that this is something that has happened right. So we think that’s likely to increase representation in the future because he doesn’t want to do those things again, and we think that is something that is also going to be touched on.
But secondly because of international support it has increased. We think that there’s going to be a lot of pressure from international organizations, but  also from the collection of nations like the European Union from the democratization of what is going on. That can only be achieved so far as if the actual proof that the election was rigged. And this is also quite important because you’re able to do many things on the governmental level or the intercontinental level, you’re able to pressure Maduro or give those benefits.
Anyways, for all of those reasons, that’s to start what we propose.
